Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) leader Raila Odinga will today lead&nbsp; a dinner to mark the 10th anniversary of the party. Over 500 life and honorary members will attend the function to celebrate the 10th anniversary since the inception of the Orange party in 2006 soon after the referendum of 2005. The founding chairman and secretary general Henry Kosgey and Anyang&#39; Nyong&#39;o are some of the leaders of the party are expected to make key addresses. Raila will lead the party in a keynote address to over 300 members. &quot;The dinner is for ODM life members. Currently, we have slightly more than 3,000 life members in our register. We expect between 450 to 500 to attend,&quot; said ODM Executive Director Oduor Ong&#39;wen. Born out of those opposed to the constitutional document popularly known as the &#39;Wako Draft&#39; pitting the then National Rainbow Coalition (Narc) leadership led by former President Mwai Kibaki, the party has had its share of failures and successes almost in equal measure. READ MORE How referendum campaigns gave birth to ODM MPs buckle under pressure to pass Bill on party hopping Raila: ODM will win power ODM leaders John Mbadi (Chairman) and Agnes Zani (Secretary General) are categorical the party still believes in social democracy, has helped push for the new constitutional dispensation. According to Mbadi, the Opposition chief led others in rejecting the &#39;Wako Draft&#39; that did not have provisions for devolution and decentralisation of power. &quot;Devolution and the Comprehensive Bill of Rights currently enjoyed by Kenyans is largely attributed to ODM. The widened democratic space is accredited to ODM,&quot; said Mbadi. The party chairman said despite the challenges facing the party, it still boasts of being the single largest party with 16 governors, 17 senators, 15 women representatives, 81 National Assembly members and 587 Members of the County Assemblies. Zani said ODM governors had transformed the lives of the electorate at the counties by initiating road, water and expanding market access to the locals. &quot;For the past decade, ODM party has agitated for equality and equitable distribution of resources. The party has pushed for reforms,&quot; she said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;