Sanitation is still a challenge in Kenya, what are the current short falls? Some of the challenges in the sector include financing and legal. The question is whether the sector or counties are able to attract different sources of funding due to the existence of limiting institutional frameworks for financial transactions to take place. The budget allocation to water and sanitation is just 0.5 per cent of the Gross Domestic Product. Public and private institutions at all levels must have the capacity to carry out their roles and responsibilities for effective Water Sanitation and Hygiene (Wash) service delivery at scale. How many children below the age of five are losing their lives due to poor sanitation? 88 per cent of all cases of diarrhea globally are attributable to water, sanitation and hygiene. Diarrhea caused the death of around 24,000 children under the age of five in Kenya in 2008. Under age five diarrhea prevalence is at 17 per cent in Kenya, and higher among poorer households. &nbsp;Infant mortality rate is 39 deaths per 1,000 live births and under-five mortality rate is 52 deaths per 1,000 live births; according to the Kenya Health and Demographic Survey (KDHS 2014). READ MORE The shame of our crumbling public schools Provide more households with tap water Survey shows State requires Sh100b to raise water access Which areas in Kenya are rampant for communicable diseases associated with lack of proper sanitation? In the recent past, cholera outbreak affected more than half of all the counties in Kenya. Nyanza, Central and North Eastern regions were mostly affected by the 2014 outbreaks. What is the status of sanitation and water in Kenya schools? Over 80 per cent of schools in Kenya have basic sanitation facilities. Health centers without basic hygiene stand at 42 per cent, and 2 per cent lack sanitation facilities. What is the Ministry of Health doing to ensure schools have proper sanitation? The national government is offering technical assistance to counties. One of the ways is the establishment of school WASH technical working groups, as well as, reviewing the school WASH policies (2009 Policies &amp; Guidelines). GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;