&nbsp; School of Education students celebrate after completing 4 year course at Moi University Main Campus during the 32 graduation ceremony in Eldoret yesterday. 22.09.2016. PHOTOS BY PETER OCHIENG/STANDARD. Council of VCs concedes public universities are in the red, asks State to double subsidies and call for fee increase. Public universities may be forced to increase fees by Sh8, 000 to shake off financial constraints that have left them broke. The 32 universities want annual fees paid by students increased from Sh16,000 to Sh24,000, and the Government to also raise the average contribution per student to Sh250,000, from an average of Sh129,058. They argue the current funding model is outdated and blame it for the financial stress that has seen a majority of public universities sink into huge debts with negative working capital as detailed in a recent parliamentary watchdog report. But in the meantime, to help the struggling institutions, the Government is being pushed to increase its annual capitation by Sh10 billion by next year. It also emerged that, under this arrangement, universities would have to increase their contribution per student to up to Sh50, 000 per year. The details emerged as universities sought to clarify why it may never be sustainable to run the institutions of higher learning under the current funding formula. Data seen by The Standard show that the current Sh32.8 billion funding of the public universities is inadequate and its distribution skewed, leaving many institutions vulnerable. With a growing student population and a funding formula that has never been revised for the past 25 years, public universities say the list of broke universities is shocking. &ldquo;It is true many universities are in the red and we do not even understand how they are surviving,&rdquo; said Prof Francis Aduol, chairman of the committee of the vice-chancellors of public universities in Kenya. FUNDING LEVELS Statistics of the 2015/2016 universities funding show University of Nairobi received the highest funding at Sh6.3 billion. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 4 Next &raquo;