The 11 suspects facing money laundering charges over the Sh791 million National Youth Service scandal now want former Devolution Cabinet Secretary Anne Waiguru barred from commenting on the case. The suspects told a Nairobi court Thursday that the former CS has been making prejudicial statements in public, and causing the same statements to be published in the media. They claim that Waiguru, who has announced that she will be contesting the Kirinyaga governor&#39;s seat, has been using the case to gain political mileage and trying them in public. They told Milimani Senior principal magistrate Martha Mutuku that the former CS&#39;s continued remarks are likely to affect the determination of the case based on the fact that she was adversely linked to it at the beginning. &quot;We urge the court to restrain Waiguru from making any further comments as the matter is already before court,&quot; said Lawyer Maina Wachira . Those facing trial include business woman Josephine Kabura, Ben Gethi, John Kago, Samuel Wachenje, Anthony Gethii Kihara, Benson Gachoka, Benson Gethi, John Hope Vandamme, Martin Gachara Wanjohi and Jedida Wangari, Charity Wangui and Lawyer Patrick Ogola. READ MORE Waiguru now ready for race after receiving blessings from elders House team wants Mutahi Ngunyi to refund NYS millions Four injured as newly acquired police chopper crashes in Nairobi Yesterday, their lawyer asked the court to restrain parliamentary accounts committee from summoning the suspects for further interrogation. Wachira said the suspects having already been grilled by relevant bodies and charged before the court, would suffer double jeopardy should they honour the summons. The lawyer said they should be given time to concentrate on the two cases against them pending before court, and not be subjected to a separate trial. However, state lawyer, Victor Mule, said the Director of Public Prosecution has no powers to bar PAC from summoning suspects. Mule urged the court to refer the matter to the High court for interpretation. &quot;For the case of Waiguru, she is not a state officer and she is not a witness in this case. The constitution provides how state functions should run. Let the parties follow the right procedure&quot; he said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;