Washington D.C.: Donald Trump has fallen further behind Hillary Clinton and now trails her by 8 points among likely voters, according to a new Reuters/Ipsos opinion poll, with 1 in 5 Republicans saying his vulgar comments about groping women disqualify him from the presidency. The national tracking poll was launched after Sunday night&#39;s second presidential debate, where Trump was pressed to explain his comments in a 2005 videotape about grabbing women&#39;s genitalia. He described the remarks, which first surfaced on Friday, as &quot;locker room&quot; banter and apologized to Americans. The poll released on Tuesday showed Clinton, the Democratic nominee, had increased her lead over Trump, the Republican nominee, to 8 percentage points on Monday from 5 points last week. When asked to pick between the two major-party candidates, 45 percent of likely voters said they supported Clinton while 37 percent supported Trump. Another 18 percent said they would not support either candidate. Trump was under pressure during Sunday&#39;s debate to restore confidence in his struggling campaign after dozens of lawmakers repudiated him over the weekend. He hammered Clinton&#39;s handling of classified information while serving as secretary of state and referred to her as &quot;the devil.&quot; At one point, he said he would jail Clinton if he were president. Among those who said they watched at least portions of the debate, 53 percent said Clinton won while 32 percent said Trump won. The results fell along partisan lines, however: 82 percent of Democrats felt Clinton won, while 68 percent of Republicans felt that Trump won. READ MORE US could learn from our constitution Trump's struggles could hurt voter turnout for Clinton U.S. Republicans in crisis over Donald Trump's vulgar video Among likely voters who watched the debate, 48 percent said they supported Clinton while 38 percent supported Trump. &#39;LOCKER ROOM TALK&#39; In the 2005 Access Hollywood video Trump boasted about making unwanted sexual advances toward women. &quot;When you&rsquo;re a star they let you do it,&quot; he is heard saying. Some 61 percent of those polled said that &quot;lots of men&quot; occasionally engage in similar conversations, and 46 percent, a plurality, said it was unfair to judge someone on conversations &quot;that they did not intend for anyone else to hear.&quot; Most of those polled said they believe Trump is a sexist, but they were split on whether his comments disqualify him from being president. Some 42 percent of American adults, including 19 percent of registered Republicans, said Trump&#39;s comments disqualified him, while 43 percent said they did not. Among Republicans, 58 percent said they want Trump to remain atop their party&#39;s ticket, and 68 percent said the Republican leadership should stand by him. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;