Motions to impeach Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero and Speaker Alex ole Magelo have been drafted by members of the city county assembly. Minority Leader Abdi Hassan confirmed to The Standard that he had received the two motions from the members. &ldquo;I have received the motions from the members who feel that there needs to be change. We are waiting for the clerk to approve the motions so that they can be tabled,&rdquo; said Hassan. He said that 60 MCAs had already appended their signatures on the impeachment of Governor Kidero with 65 Jubilee coalition members signing to have the Speaker kicked out for alleged incompetence. The Nairobi County Assembly has a total of 127 members. The mover of the motion and Viwandani MCA Samuel Nyangwara &ndash; a CORD affiliate &ndash; said that he was guided by the Constitution in calling for the impeachment of the governor provided there were grounds to do so and he would not relent until he achieved his mission. Nyangwara said the governor has been violating the Constitution by not implementing a majority of the bills and has also failed to remit money meant for ward development. READ MORE Sonko surprise alliance to fight Kidero and Wamalwa Brazil Senate ousts President Rousseff for breaking budget laws Jubilee coalition allies sharply divided over governor seat No tangible project &ldquo;Since the 2013 General Election, we have been passing budgets every year but nothing has been done in our wards. In my ward, you will not see any tangible projects,&rdquo; he said. He alluded to a road project that had commenced in his ward but later stalled after the executive failed to release cash. The member of the House Business Committee further claimed the governor had been misappropriating funds. According to Controller of Budget reports, he said, there had been financial irregularities in every financial year with large amounts of money not being accounted for. &ldquo;We passed the Development Funds Bill in 2014 and since then, no good has come out of it. Only an account was opened but nothing was deposited. The governor is not using the law we passed to deliver service to Nairobi residents,&rdquo; said Nyangwara. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;