Funyula MP Paul Otuoma is back in the Orange Democratic Movement and will resume his duties as the party&rsquo;s vice chairman, party leader Raila Odinga announced yesterday. Raila said Otuoma, who resigned from the party in a huff alongside the former Secretary General Ababu Namwamba two months ago, will resume his duties as the party prepares for the August 2017 General Election. The CORD principal made the announcement in the presence of the Funyula MP during the burial of former legendary Kenyan goalkeeper&nbsp; James Sianga at Siguyo in Ugenya, Siaya County yesterday. &ldquo;I want to welcome Otuoma back to the party&rsquo;s leadership. I knew he had just taken a short leave to rest after hard work. He is now back,&rdquo; Raila said amid applause from mourners who included several MPs. Vacant position He said Otuoma was still a strong party member and knew would return to take up his seat. This was the reason the position was still vacant, he explained. READ MORE Raila dares Uhuru to end injustices Raila renews calls for government to implement TJRC report Kidero vows to bankroll Raila campaigns &ldquo;There was a gap in the party but we will give him back his seat. He is coming back to fill it because I have given it back to him. Otuoma had this position in the party and he will take it back,&rdquo; said Raila. &ldquo;We know where we have come from and we are working together for a better cause.&rdquo; Otuoma, who shared a platform with Raila for the first time since he resigned from his party leadership position, in July, said he never left ODM. He instead faulted unnamed people for badmouthing him, saying he was among the party&rsquo;s founders and could not abandon it. &ldquo;Some people are good at smelling things that are non-existent and peddling false rumours. I have always been in ODM,&rdquo; said Otuoma who addressed Raila as &ldquo;My party leader&rdquo;. His return to ODM deals a big blow to Namwamba, who two days ago joined the Labour Party of Kenya. When they resigned from their positions in ODM, the two leaders said they were quitting because they were frequently overlooked by the party leadership.&nbsp; GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;