A Nyeri court has ordered that a case in which a businessman has sued a firm for failing to issue title deeds should proceed. Justice Lucy Waithaka gave the orders after James Muchangi objected to an application by Solio Ranch Ltd, in which the company wanted the matter struck out and moved to Nairobi. In her ruling, Justice Waithaka noted the plaintiff&rsquo;s case was arguable since he had tendered some documents that indicated there could have been a transaction. &ldquo;The plaintiff has offered documents indicate there could have been a transaction between him and the defendants, noting there is also a matter involving Nyeri Teachers Sacco, which is also involved in the land,&rdquo; said Justice Waithaka. She further ordered that transferring the case to Nairobi would be unnecessary since it would only make the matter drag in court. READ MORE Man shot dead in Naivasha inter-clan clashes Planned law removes barriers for mega works Governor Joho and KBC sue each other on disputed 22-acre Mombasa plot &ldquo;I take into consideration that the matter was filed in another court and was transferred to this court on grounds of territorial jurisdiction. The matter will be heard and determined in this court,&rdquo; she ruled, noting that the inter-partes hearing will be held on November 23. Controversy deepens Mr Muchangi has moved to court to compel Solio Ranch Ltd to issue him with a title deed for 200 acres of land worth millions of shillings, which he said he purchased. He observed that he cleared payment for a 200-acre block of land within Solio Ranch in Laikipia, but the company declined to issue him with a title deed. He argues that upon completion of the payment for the land, the company asked him to purchase another block of 200 acres, for which he deposited more than 10 per cent payment. &ldquo;But when I asked the company to issue me with a title deed for the land whose payment was cleared, they said I must first clear payment for the second block,&rdquo; he noted. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;