The cracks in CORD widened as its co-principals clashed on key issues to be considered in determining its flag bearer in the 2017 General Election. Even in the midst of constant denials that all is well within the coalition, CORD&nbsp;co-principals Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka contradicted each other on the nomination deadlines. There is fear that Raila could overlook Kalonzo and work with politicians outside the Opposition coalition. &quot;There is no reason why we should not work with Musalia Mudavadi, the same thing with Gideon Moi and Isaac Ruto. These are people who have been frustrated by Jubilee in their areas and we would like to have some working alliances... I just want to say watch this space... those who come will be part of us so we will be talking,&quot; said Odinga in an interview on Citizen Television Sunday Prime Time news. In his response, Kalonzo termed Raila&#39;s statement &#39;the politics of betrayal&#39; which could leave him vulnerable just months to the election. The Wiper leader is apprehensive that he could be left stranded should Raila endorse someone else as the Opposition flagbearer, with little or no time left for him to undertake his own campaign for the presidency. READ MORE Orengo opposes IEBC invitation for bids to audit voter's register Raila project claim sparks fireworks with Jubilee Mudavadi party wins from Jubilee Party fallout &quot;We seriously disagree with that statement...and this is the politics of betrayal. People want true leadership to emerge. &quot;What I have gone through amounts to 10 years in detention, politically. I cannot wait and say we will decide in March when elections are in August. This matter must be resolved sooner than later,&quot; said Kalonzo, adding that there have been attempts over the years to cut him down to size. &quot;I used to be called watermelon. I have been called names. I have been betrayed. It was so annoying and I couldn&#39;t understand. People were trying to cut me down, so this business of cutting Kalonzo down has been on since the Moi succession and I&#39;m now saying time is up for everybody,&quot; he warned. The exchange is the culmination of months of haggling within the coalition, as key lieutenants of Raila, Kalonzo and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang&#39;ula seek to gain an upper hand in the race to unseat President Uhuru Kenyatta. The coalition is divided on the mode of nominating its candidate and the timelines within which such a candidate must be identified. While Raila favours a March deadline, Kalonzo wants a December date, which he says will give the coalition enough time to market its candidate. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;