Members of Kitui County Assembly have rejected claims that they accused Wiper Leader Kalonzo Musyoka&nbsp;of failing to provide leadership for the party. In a statement, the MCAs said they did not give Kalonzo any ultimatum over the affairs of Wiper party. &ldquo;We never issued any press statement giving the party leadership an ultimatum regarding nominations,&rdquo; the statement read. Earlier, 11 elected MCAs had asked Kalonzo to call a crisis meeting to deliberate on the thorny issue of party nominations ahead of the 2017 elections. In a strongly worded statement delivered to the press at the assembly on Thursday, the MCAs claimed Wiper was under attack from within as some members were conspiring to edge others out. Led by Majority Leader Jacob Maundu, the members said there was danger of the party disintegrating into a shell should Kalonzo not give his assurance of free party nominations. READ MORE 26 Wiper MCAs threaten to walk out of party CORD mulls consensus in picking its 2017 candidate Kalonzo most trusted leader, says Orengo &ldquo;Over the last six months, there has been too much political heat which threatens the unity of the party and destroy Kalonzo&rsquo;s chances at national politics. We need Kalonzo to come clear and show direction,&rdquo; Maundu said. The MCAs took issue with recent utterances by four Wiper MPs who had accompanied Kitui Senator David Musila to a sports event at Kabati in Kitui West Sub-county. During the event, MPs Francis Nyenze (Kitui West), Mutua Muluvi (Kitui East) Bernard Kitungi (Mwingi West) and Charles Nyamai (Kitui Rural) claimed Wiper has its owners and there is no way Kitui Governor Julius Malombe, a new comer in the party, will be allowed to win the party ticket. The MPs said they supported Musila&rsquo;s candidature for the governor&rsquo;s seat. Saturday, the MCAs said they had absolute confidence that the party leadership will oversee a free and credible nomination process. &ldquo;We have absolute confidence in the party leadership to oversee the primaries as it did in 2008 and the 2013 general elections. Anyone who is scared of the election process should not drag the party leader&rsquo;s name into his problems,&rdquo; the statement, signed by six MCAs, said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;