Members of a church have accused the Government of plotting to destroy their god&#39;s grave. Legio Maria of African Church Mission claimed yesterday that&nbsp;two missionaries were seeking to demolish the mausoleum for the late Messiah Simeo Ondeto. Led by Pope Raphael Otieno, they said the missionaries&#39; planned to put up a new building on the site where the mausoleum is located in Got Kwer, Migori County. Mr Otieno told journalists yesterday that Government officials from the region had already granted the two missionaries permission to begin construction. &quot;We have received information that the deputy commissioner of Suna West has already granted the two the authority to begin construction on our Baba Messiah Mausoleum,&quot; he said. Otieno accused the officials of helping the missionaries to interfere with the church&#39;s heritage &quot;The deputy county commissioner of Suna West has no authority whatsoever to grant permission concerning any registered property of the church,&quot; he said. READ MORE Zimbabwe's Mugabe says judges reckless for allowing protests Over 1,000 arrested as post-election riots rage in Gabon Eastleigh shops closed in weekly protest He said claims that the two had been sent through visions to construct a better mausoleum was a massive lie. &quot;If at all the two are benefactors of the church who have been sent by Baba Messiah through visions, then why do they have a particular interest in Baba Messiah&#39;s mausoleum? We have several church buildings where they can channel their assistance,&quot; said Otieno. He said the church would seek legal redress to stop the trespass by the two missionaries. He added that the church planned to build a mausoleum for their messiah but internal wrangling had stalled the project. &quot;The church is not unable to build the mausoleum; we are still sorting out the issue of rebels occupying the headquarters illegally,&quot; said the church representative. He claimed &quot;some rebels&quot; invaded the church headquarters in 2009 and were responsible for engaging the two women missionaries. The rebels, he said, had no authority to speak on behalf of the church.