ODM leader Raila Odinga returned to Western for another&nbsp;flurry of campaigns and sought the region&rsquo;s backing for his&nbsp;presidential bid ahead of next year&rsquo;s elections. Raila started his five-day tour of the region yesterday in&nbsp;Khwisero and Butere constituencies, slightly over a month after&nbsp;visiting Busia, Vihiga and Mumias to consolidate support. Speaking at Manyulia, Shatsala, Sabatia, Bukura and&nbsp;Khwisero trading centres, the ODM chief explained that he chose to visit Western again in order to be assured of theWestern again in order to be assured of the region&#39;s support. &quot;I came back to ask for your blessings before the journey to oust Jubilee from power begins in earnest. I am ready for the task ahead of me and I ask you to back my presidential bid by standing with me throughout the journey,&quot; said the former premier. His sentiments were echoed by a close ally, Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, who is also the ODM deputy party leader. &quot;We are here to kick off the journey to State House with Raila as our flagbearer.&quot; Mr Oparanya explained that the Orange party had started to lay out strategies for 2017, and asked other CORD partners to organise themselves. &quot;We are in a coalition comprising ODM, Ford Kenya and Wiper, but our party has decided to strengthen itself beginning from the grassroots to national level and other outfits must follow suit,&quot; he said. READ MORE 35 MPs and five governors to dump Opposition for new Jubilee outfit Strive to slay the dragon of tribalism in Kenya Headache for Uhuru and Ruto as scramble for top party posts starts Raila said the opposition had all reasons to remove Jubilee from power, citing rampant corruption, lack of accountability and transparency in implementation of flagship projects and poor governance. &quot;They reneged on many pledges such as creation of employment for the youth and women, construction at least 10,000km of tarmac roads every year, school laptops project and construction of modern stadia in every county,&quot; he said. He said the Government had resorted to weekly sectorial summits usually held at State House where the Jubilee administration unveiled fresh blueprints as opposed to telling Kenyans what they had achieved so far. &quot;They should be telling Kenyans about what has been done in reference to the pledges made earlier,&quot; Raila said. The CORD leader maintained that such meetings were of no use since the Jubilee administration did not have a performance record to show. &quot;We want to see their scorecard. They should not be making promises on top of other promises.&quot; Raila was accompanied by several legislators and party officials during the tour. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;