Central Organization of Trade Unions (Cotu) Secretary General Francis Atwoli wants Jubilee Government to stop dismissing the opposition over the multibillion shillings water project in Murang&#39;a County. He called for sobriety in handling the water project to avoid regrets if it one day turns catastrophic. Atwoli wants President Uhuru Kenyatta to stop dismissing CORD leader Raila Odinga for criticising implementation of the water project. Speaking when he was hosted by Homa Bay Women Representative Gladys Wanga at a fundraiser in aid of Homa Bay County Women Sacco, Atwoli told the Jubilee administration to investigate allegations before dismissing Raila. &quot;I am telling the Jubilee administration not to hurry in dismissing Raila&#39;s remarks over the project. It is prudent for them to conduct investigations first,&quot; said Atwoli He argued that it would be disastrous if the Government implements the project when it is true that it may cause adverse environmental impact. READ MORE Pressure piles on President Uhuru over project Raila Odinga urges Murang&rsquo;a leaders to face truth on water project Luhya leaders to unveil presidential candidate in December Cotu boss said the matter should not be politicized and instead, be looked from both professional and human perspectives. &quot;Murang&#39;a leaders must pay keen attention to what Raila is saying. Raila is not interested in anything in Murang&#39;a hence the local leaders should view him as one whose words may help them,&quot; he added. The Cotu boss used the platform to demand that the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) disbanded. He said the EACC is an agent of corruption in Kenya. He said there was nothing important the EACC is doing to help the country. Atwoli argued that all EACC commissioners should have been sent home when their immediate former chairman Philip Kinisu went home. &quot;If the immediate EACC chairman Philip Kinisu left the office because he implicated in corruption, what are these commissioners doing in office? They are doing nothing apart from perpetrating corruption,&quot; he said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;