About 26 millions Kenyans still have no access water from the 91 utilities that have been established over the years. This is troubling. A report by the Water Service Regulatory Board (Wasreb) notes that most counties still have very little water coverage. The ninth edition of the Impact Assessment Report on Water Services notes that access to clean water is at 65 per cent in urban areas and 49 in rural areas. And among the least covered counties is Vihiga &mdash; this county&rsquo;s water coverage stands at just 16 per cent, with Laikipia having the highest at 86 per cent. Some 19 counties have water coverage at less than 50 per cent. These may appear like statistics, but the figures tell a damning story of deprivation for many rural communities that need water for their day-to-day lives. It is painfully obvious that the 91 regulated utilities that are currently serving just 20 million Kenyans through 1.6 million connections are woefully inadequate. To reach all the 46 million Kenyans, 200,000 new connections are needed every year from the current 14,000. This is a tall order by all accounts. Obviously, there is work to be done. As Wasreb chairman Anthony Kiroken noted, a steady growth of 350,000 new connections is required to reach at least 3.2 million people. This is an expensive undertaking since the government needs Sh100 billion to ensure every Kenyan has access to clean water. But even before we begin to make financial commitments, more must done to harness the water we are already harvesting as well as ensure that all tapped water is paid for. Authorities should ensure there is less non-revenue water for those who do not want to pay utility companies to provide them with this commodity. Non-revenue water contributes to 43 per cent of water that has undergone treatment but ends up not being paid for mostly due to leakages attributed to urbanisation that forces pipeline rerouting and worn out infrastructure. These are technical problems that must be tackled. READ MORE Japanese NGO boss inspects Sh2.2 billion water project State to fund two water dams at Sh10billion Kiunjuri and Wamalwa launch irrigation projects The provision of utilities such as water and electricity significantly contributes to improving the well-being of Kenyans. The national government has done a sterling job in connecting more households to the national electricity grid. If a similar effort is expended to provide water, more Kenyans will be spared the ravages of diseases that thrive when clean tap water is unavailable. Let there be more focused efforts to provide tap water to Kenyans.