Chaos erupted in Eldoret town yesterday after word went round that a number of leaders were being grilled by police detectives. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, Elgeyo Marakwet&rsquo;s Alex Tolgos and Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi were yesterday questioned at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations headquarters regarding allegations of incitement to violence, prompting demonstrations. Also grilled was Moiben MP Silas Tiren. Police were forced to use teargas to disperse residents in the riots that affected business in the town&rsquo;s central business district. Similar protests went on in the neighbouring Iten town in Elgeyo Marakwet County, with residents demonstrating solidarity with their governor. The leaders are accused of inciting the public to violence in remarks they made regarding the appointment of Laban Ayiro as the acting vice chancellor of Moi University. READ MORE The ogre of tribalism must be laid to rest Shame of Kenyan public universities promoting tribalism in hiring Governors Mandago, Tolgos and MP Sudi quizzed at DCI headquarters They arrived at DCI headquarters along Kiambu Road in Nairobi at about 1pm and had brief prayer session at the gate before they were ushered in. They were first received by Head of Investigations John Kariuki before being taken to different rooms for questioning. Four hours later, they emerged to rapturous applause from their supporters waiting at the gate. Mr Mandago maintained his earlier stand. &ldquo;I stand by what I said. Merit is needed in the appointment of the VC. We said we will come here to distinguish between truth and lies,&rdquo; he said. The governor appeared to blame the media for the leaders&rsquo; woes, saying journalists needed to report the truth about issues to help society. &ldquo;Sensationalism will not help. Report what we say accurately. I stand by what I said,&rdquo; he said. Others expected to record statements on incitement are MPs James Bett (Kesses) and Alfred Keter (Nandi Hills), police said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;