Coffee farmers are harvesting more profits under a new marketing model that links them directly to consumers. The model effectively eliminates one of the biggest stumbling blocks between coffee farmers and good profits - middlemen and brokers. In the model, several consumer organisations in Europe have partnered with local coffee farmers through their societies in a project aimed at boosting yield, quality and facilitating direct sale of the produce in international markets. The&nbsp; model is currently being tested with the giant Othaya Farmers&rsquo; Co-operative Society in Central Kenya, before being rolled out to other coffee societies. Once rolled out, it will see European and American coffee consumers directly involved in the production and marketing of Kenyan coffee, this way reducing the role of middlemen in the trade. With the the coffee sector reeling from a myriad of challenges, farmers are now putting their faith in the model. READ MORE Robbers kill factory security guard, steal 65 bags of coffee New coffee dealers list stirs up storm in Kenya Coffee theft puzzle as farmers point fingers at sector cartels Farmer&#39;s schools Already, three Danish consumer organisations have partnered with Othaya farmers&rsquo; co-operative society to sponsor farmers&rsquo; field schools (FFS) to address the steady decline in production of the commodity. African Coffee Roasters (ACR), a subsidiary of COOP Denmark, Peter Carsen Kaffe and Just Fair are among organisations sponsoring the project dubbed &ldquo;Coffee for Better Future&rdquo;. ACR managing director Poul David Videbaek said the main focus of the project was to boost production quality and ensure better prices through promotion of direct coffee sales in international markets. Speaking at one of the FFS in Othaya, Nyeri County, Videbaek said the move would link coffee consumers and producers directly in the coffee value chain. &ldquo;We saw the need to get closer to farmers after realising they were facing numerous challenges in marketing and production,&rdquo; the MD explained. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;