Ethics and Anti- Corruption Commission (EACC) officers have arrested a middle aged man who is alleged to have conned desperate youths yearning to join the Kenya Defence Force (KDF). The suspect, Michael Koskey was arrested in Nakuru town while soliciting money in pretense he was facilitating KDF recruitment. Confirming the arrest, EACC legal officer George Mogare Oira said Koskey used to pose like a KDF officer who was facilitating the ongoing KDF recruitment. Mr Oira said EACC officers received a tip off from members of the public who had fallen victim of his trap. The officers conducted investigations and arrested him in Nakuru town. He said Koskey used to refer to himself as David Rono, a move Oria said was meant to hide his official identity from the public and authority. &quot;The suspect was receiving money from the public purporting to facilitate KDF recruitment however a section of victims informed EACC officers who laid a trap and arrested him,&quot; said Oira. READ MORE Kenya parliament turns down KDF pay plan Hope dawns as KDF considers orphan in recruitment 68 applicants for EACC top job disqualified During the arrest, Koskey had Sh150,000 alleged to have been received from members of the public so that he could secure them vacancies in KDF. He said in addition, the KDF imposter has received more than Sh500, 000 from members of the public in various parts of the country. &quot;Koskey is believed to have conned more people in the country because there are numerous complaints about him,&quot; he said. The officer said more investigations have been launched to arraign him in court and charge him for impersonating a KDF officer and soliciting money from the public. However the officer warned members of the public to follow rightful procedures while seeking for any recruitment and employment in any department to avoid being victims of con-men. &quot;People should be warned of using illegal ways to secure various opportunities because there are con-men who take advantage of their desperate situations to steal from them,&quot; he warned. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;