&nbsp; Saudi Embassy in Nairobi Charge D&rsquo;Affaires Abdullah Al Qahtani ( left) gives Hajj ceremonial dressing to Sheikh Ahmad Uthman at the Embassy on Wednesday ahead of their flight to Mecca PHOTO: ALLY JAMAH At least 5000 Kenyans are travelling to Mecca for the Hajj pilgrimage amid new security measures by Saudi Arabia authorities to forestall possible fatal accidents witnessed last year. In 2015, at least 700 people died including 8 Kenyans in the deadliest year for the annual pilgrimage in 25 years as a result of stampedes and collapse of construction cranes. Another 900 people were injured. Batches of pilgrims from Kenya are flying out ahead of the climax of the pilgrimage ceremonies and prayers expected between 9th and 15th this month. This year, the Kenyans will be part of the 2.5 million people from across the world expected to converge in Mecca. Saudi Embassy in Nairobi Charge D&rsquo;Affaires Abdullah Masoud Al Qahtani said this year, authorities in Saudi Arabia have put in place wide-ranging measures to better manage the movements of pilgrims to prevent possible accidents such as stampedes. READ MORE Pipeline in Sh40b plan to relieve pain at the pump We&rsquo;ll develop local projects even if you don&rsquo;t vote for Jubilee, Uhuru tells Coast residents Five people injured in Murang'a after car runs into market &ldquo;The Saudi government has mobilised enormous human, technological and financial resources to enhance safety of pilgrims. We are hoping for an incident-free hajj this year God willing,&rdquo; he said. Mr. Qahtani said the number of security personnel on the ground has been increased to 200,000 to better manage the movements of pilgrims. All pilgrims will also be required to wear an electronic safety device on their wrists, which can be tracked by satellites so as to better manage their movements to prevent stampedes or other incidents. The devices also contain personal and medical information of the pilgrims to ease identification and service provision.&nbsp; The information can be accessed remotely by Saudi government and security agencies via smart phones. Nearly a thousand security cameras have also been installed and linked to control rooms manned by specialised security forces to monitor and manage movements of pilgrims in a bid to forestall any accidents. The Hajj is the largest annual gathering of people in the world and managing movements of millions of people within an area the size of Nairobi Central Business District poses significant challenges. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;