A law student was interviewed by the Judicial Service Commission for 31 minutes for the Chief Justice&#39;s post. Paul Andrew Kongani Udoto Kongani (pictured) eventually bowed out of the race because he did not meet the minimum requirement for the job. The&nbsp;student, who is also a&nbsp;carpenter, addressed Judicial Service Commission over his lack of the&nbsp;required 15 years experience at 9.15am yesterday. The 39-year-old man wanted JSC to consider whether he should continue or not before going ahead with the interview. &quot;I want the panel to clarify its position because I got two letters, first on rejection which I never contested and another one requiring that I should appear today,&quot; Mr Udoto said. Udoto&#39;s address lasted 14 minutes after which JSC acting chair Margret Kobia interjected and asked him to allow Justice Aggrey Muchelule to ask him questions. READ MORE Judicial officers will work as a family unit under my watch, Nambuye tells panel Kitonga taken to task over new law in CJ job interview I will not compromise church for work, says judge The question and answer session, which was entirely on experience lasted 17 minutes. Judge Muchelule asked: &quot;Are you saying that you have withdrawn. You know if you are going to be the Chief Justice, you will be the head of the Supreme Court and the head of other judges? Are you qualified?&quot; He answered: &quot;Based on the requirement of 15 years experience indicated, I do not qualify for the job. You have based the qualification on Blacks Law Dictionary which states that experience is about work.&quot; Udoto, clad in a black suit, a white shirt and a navy blue tie with white polka dots, sat calmly as the judge questioned him. The 2011 Moi University law school graduate said that the law should be changed to factor in young people. His conclusion about the top Judiciary job is that no one under 40 years will get it. Most Kenyans complete secondary school at the age of 18. A law degree takes four years while a diploma in law, which enables one to be admitted to the bar, takes three years. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;