The Jubilee Party (JP) is planning another elaborate function in 10 days to name its new interim officials. Officials of the old Jubilee Alliance Party (JAP), which was renamed JP after the merger of 13 parties, were retained in the new outfit unveiled a month ago. Only President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy, William Ruto, as party leader and deputy party leader respectively, were added to the list of seven old officials that was filed with the Registrar of Political Parties. However, the decision to recall officials of JAP to lead Jubilee Party was seen as a strategy to forestall jostling for positions by top leaders of parties that dissolved to merge with the newly-formed outfit. Jubilee Party has 31 positions both at the national and county levels. At the national level, the party will have 21 officials and about 10 each at the constituency, ward and polling station levels. It had been widely expected that the new party would name its officials during the launch at Kasarani, but reports suggested that Uhuru and Mr Ruto shelved the plan to avert acrimony as officials of dissolved parties had made demands, like New Ford Kenya that wanted the secretary general&rsquo;s post. READ MORE Uhuru, Ruto go for Kalonzo to hit Raila Governor Issa Timamy, Kazungu Kambi quit Jubilee Jubilee Party challenged to name officials Yesterday, National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale (Garissa Township) said plans were at an advanced stage for the event. &ldquo;We are going to unveil our interim officials for our new party in the next 10 days,&rdquo; said Mr Duale. He added: &ldquo;We don&rsquo;t have officials. Those who are there is because of the change of name. Our party leadership is going to reflect the face of Kenya and ethnic diversity.&rdquo; COVETED POSITIONS Duale explained that the leadership structure was going to incorporate everybody. Though last month&rsquo;s JP launch drew both public admiration and criticism over its Sh300 million budget, Duale said the event to name the party&rsquo;s new officials will equally be a spectacle. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;