Residents of Mai Mahiu in Naivasha are in shock after five people died in the town over the weekend in five different occasions. The five who included a cleric died through road accidents and suicide leaving area residents in mourning and in fear. In the first incident, a cleric collapsed while taking shower in his house and was pronounced dead on arrival at a local hospital. The cleric in his early 50s was in good health before the incident occurred according to his relatives and friends. A local leader Joseph Njoroge said that the death caught many by surprise adding that the deceased had earlier dined with his family before the death occurred. &quot;He collapsed in the bathroom while taking a shower and efforts to resuscitate him in the nearby health center were fruitless,&quot; he said. In the second incident, a woman was crushed to death by a trailer that lost control and landed on her near the trading center. READ MORE 17 Indian soldiers, 4 militants killed in Kashmir attack Two burnt to death in night fire in Embu Life and times of William ole Ntimama Njoroge said that the woman was selling fruits by the roadside when the speeding lorry ran over her a few meters from the town. &quot;The woman died on the spot following the accident along the Naivasha- Mai Mahiu road while the occupants of the truck escaped with minor injuries,&quot; he said. In the third incident, a local trader committed suicide by hanging himself in his house following a domestic quarrel. Njoroge said that the trader had earlier told a motorcycle operator that he planned to commit suicide over some family problems. &quot;He was found by his wife hanging from the roof in his bedroom and the body was collected later by police,&quot; he said. In the last two incidents a middle aged man was knocked by a speeding car near the town while a man was found dead in a local lodging. &quot;These are bizarre incidents which have left area residents in shock as nearly all those who died are well known,&quot; said Njoroge. A senior police officer who declined to be named confirmed the deaths adding that the bodies had been collected and taken to different mortuaries. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;