Police in Migori County have arrested two Kenyans and impounded explosives at Isebania town, near the Kenya-Tanzania border. The matatu driver and his conductor were transporting the 305 pieces of explosives in a public service vehicle from Sirare to Kisumu County. This forced Kuria West Deputy County Commissioner Sebastian Okiring to convene an impromptu security committee meeting soon after the arrests. He said the would be recipient of the deadly cargo would be arrested to explain what he intended to do with the explosives. Migori County Police Commandant David Kirui said they were interrogating the two suspects to establish their motive, the source and the destination of the explosives. &quot;The matatu was heading to Kisumu from Isebania at 3am yesterday when police intercepted it following a tip off from the public. Upon searching, the officers found the explosives in a sack,&quot; said Mr Kirui. READ MORE Matatu operators protest entry of transit buses on city routes Sh38b managed medical project now bearing fruit for Kenyans Matatus still make economic sense in age of social media The monetary value of the explosive could not be immediately ascertained. He added: &quot;The driver and conductor are being held at Isebania police post pending further investigations. Kirui said Kenya Revenue Authority and police officers on duty sprang intercepted the explosives. He said although the explosives are usually used for mining, they could be highly dangerous if they landed in the wrong hands. &quot;The mode of transportation raises more questions,&quot; Kirui said, adding that the suspects said they were to deliver the dangerous cargo to a man who was waiting for them in Kisumu. He added that the explosives could have exploded inside the vehicle that was carrying other passengers. The county police boss also said it was not clear whether the explosives were from the neighbouring Tanzania or from within the borders since they were intercepted on the Kenyan side. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;