Narok North MP Moitalel Kenta has ditched Jubilee at a time when a number of Opposition legislators have been swallowed up by the new Jubilee Party wave. Mr Kenta, who had earlier moved to court to oppose the dissolution of The National Alliance (TNA), cited ideological differences with Jubilee, saying the Government failed to articulate the issues facing the Maasai Community. &quot;The party that sponsored me to Parliament is being dissolved. It means by Saturday when the Jubilee Party will be launched, I will be party-less. From this point, I will have to consult my people on the next step and Jubilee is not automatic for me,&quot; Kenta told The Standard on Saturday. Mr Kenta hinted at joining the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM), ruling out other parties such as KANU and Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto&#39;s Chama Cha Mashinani (CCM), saying he had ideological differences with them. &quot;When TNA will be dissolved, my people will decide where I will go, but KANU and Mashinani parties should be ruled out. As for ODM, yes. We need a party in which as a leader from minority Maasai community, I will have an opportunity to even be President,&quot; he said. Kenta, who spoke in Narok town, said he did not attend the Jubilee the Jubilee merger convention at Kasarani, Nairobi, to &quot;set the record straight&quot; that he did not want to be a party defector. READ MORE Jubilee nominations will be free and fair, says Ruto Mombasa in festive mood ahead of today&rsquo;s ODM party bash Raila: Jubilee cash is suspect but we are not scared of them &quot;I do not want to confuse my people and be referred to as a party defector when I announce my next step. They have said it is either you shape up or ship out,&quot; he said. The legislator also snubbed President Uhuru Kenyatta last month, when he was at Rotian in his constituency during Geothermal Development Company (GDC) MD Johnson Ole Nchoe&#39;s homecoming ceremony. The MP accused Jubilee of engaging in political patronage, dismissing the notion that JP will bolster DP William Ruto to presidency in 2022 as having a long way to go.