Fifty six soldiers killed in Somalia in the recent past were yesterday feted at an elaborate ceremony in Mombasa&rsquo;s Kenya Navy base. The fete attended by top officials in the military and presided over by Defense Cabinet Secretary Raychelle Omamo also marked five years since Operation Linda Nchi was launched. The names of the 56 fallen soldiers were engraved on a memorial stone where current and retired top military commanders laid wreaths. But those killed during the El Ade carnage on January 15 in Somalia, this year were not mentioned during the event. Until yesterday, Kenyan authorities had never provided any official figures of the number of soldiers killed in combat in Somalia. Omamo termed Operation Linda Nchi as &ldquo;success&rdquo; and added that Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) will not leave Somali until it eliminates all terror threats against Kenya. Omamo disclosed that 6,000 Kenyan soldiers are in active combat in Somali and Southern Sudan. READ MORE Kenya parliament turns down KDF pay plan KDF imposter arrested for conning residents in ongoing recruitment Hope dawns as KDF considers orphan in recruitment Chief of Defence Forces Gen Samson Mwathethe said additional troops will be deployed along the Kenya Somali border. He said the planned Border Patrol Command will boost efforts to combat Al Shabaab militants and reiterated Omamo&rsquo;s sentiments that Kenya soldiers will remain in Somali until &ldquo;we achieve our objective.&rdquo; &ldquo;Additional deployment to secure our border with Somali from Mandera to Lamu will continue to be undertaken. Static and mobile road blocks and check point will continue to be mounted to prevent the movement of Al Shabaab, ISIS and other terror groups into our country,&rdquo; said Mwathethe. He went on:&rdquo;...the newly proposed border command will play a major role in securing our porous border with Somali.&rdquo; In January 2012, KDF was integrated into the African Union Mission to Somalia (Amisom) which include soldiers from other nations like Uganda and Ethiopia. It emerged yesterday that Kenya suffered minimal causality in the pre El Ade period if the number of the names embossed on the memorial stone in Mtongwe is anything to go by. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;