Ford People, which was founded by former powerful Cabinet Minister Simeon Nyachae, will dissolve and join President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s Jubilee Party. Party interim chairman Albert Nyaundi said members had decided to join JP, where it will negotiate for positions ahead of the elections. But some party officials yesterday protested the decision, saying they were not consulted before it was made. The party, which broke away from the late Martin Shikuku&rsquo;s Ford Asili in the run up to the 2002 General Election, was a one time popular political outfit in Kisii region and won 14 of the 210 parliamentary seats - most of them from Gusii land - in 2002. It was also this party that Nyachae used to vie for the presidency the same year after he fell out with the National Rainbow Coalition (Narc) that propelled retired President Mwai Kibaki to power. After the 2007 elections, the party entered into an alliance with President Kibaki&rsquo;s Party of National Unity (PNU) through which one of its MPs, former West Mugirango&rsquo;s Henry Obwocha, was appointed Minister for Planning and National Development. Obwocha later become the party&rsquo;s chairman until recently when Nyaundi took over. The party has three elected MPs. READ MORE Jubilee party to transform into Uhuru's re-election vehicle for 2017 polls Jubilee has no preferred candidate in race for Nairobi governor Governor Ruto says his new party will take over from URP Yesterday, it was not clear if Mr Nyachae had given his blessing for the party&rsquo;s dissolution. But the presence of his son, former Commission for the Implementation of the Constitution Chairman Charles Nyachae, during the Friday meeting could be a sign he had been fully briefed. Also surprising was the presence of Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi, who is an Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) official in the county. Maangi said the community should come together and join Jubilee in forming the next government. &ldquo;We are moving forward in the right direction. We have joined Jubilee and all we can tell our critics is to watch this space,&rdquo; he said. Maangi and Senator Chris Obure have been leading Kisii leaders to State House visits. Maangi said he could run against his boss James Ongwae next year. He said his group, which has been preaching Gusii unity, will unveil its political line-up for the next polls. But even as Nyaundi made the announcement, his interim Vice Chairman James Kenani said the decision to dissolve the party was not discussed by the National Executive Committee. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;