Police are investigating claims by a key suspect in the Sh791 million NYS theft case that he is being targeted for elimination over confidential information in his possession. Mr Ben Gethi reported the matter at Parklands police station, Nairobi, after an unidentified rider dropped a leaflet alluding to his sensational appearance last week at the Parliamentary Accounts Committee where he said he had evidence to claims he made against former devolution CS Ann Waiguru. In the statement to the police, the businessman claims that a motor cyclist left a death threat note with his driver addressed to him relating to statements he made during the PAC summons. The complaint is dated October 10 and was entered as OB number 2 at the Parklands police station. Police say they are investigating the claims and threats in the note. The threat message in Swahili reads:&nbsp; &ldquo;Ben come siku ya Tuesday, tutakua tukikuaangalia kwa makini zaidi.Kile ambacho unajua utapeana kwa hao watu huko bunge ambacho hakikuhusus na kina hus wengine wacha kisifike kwa hao watu. READ MORE Kinisu&rsquo;s exit and the hard lessons it offers &nbsp;If hiyo information itafikia hao watu itabidi kitu kifanywe na hatakama unafikiri watakuprotect tunaua corner zote ambazo titapata wapendwa wako. We will do what we have to do. Asante. ( Ben, come Tuesday we will be watching you closely, whatever you have which you will give to those people at Parliament which does not concern you but concerns others let it not reach them, if the information will reach them , then something will have to be done even if you think they will protect you, we know all corners where to get your loved ones). He told the PAC last week that he had in his possession communication between investigators and the former CS leading to alleged tampering with investigations. He also made reference to bank deposit slips which he said formed the basis of his trial in court and has also demanded proof of his relationship with Ms Josephine Kabura who was the first to implicate Ms Waiguru as a potential beneficiary of the scam. Mr Gethi also challenged the criteria used to charge him stating that he expected all so-called beneficiaries to be charged. The committee has summoned Gethi to explain on the details of all contracts entered into between himself and his companies and the NYS/ ministry of Devolution and planning. It also seeks certified bank statements of his personal accounts and business accounts capturing all payments related to the NYS contracts and to respond to allegations of alleged harrasment of Mr Adan Harakhe and other officers pushing for payments at the NYS. PAC also has sought information on his relationship with Ms Kabura and details of money advanced by her to him and &ldquo;any other matter that the cpommittee may raise during the course of the discussion.,&rdquo;&nbsp;&nbsp; GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;