Deputy President William Ruto&rsquo;s forays into Ukambani have generated unease among leaders in the region. The leaders are particularly uneasy with Ruto&rsquo;s direct appeal to Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka to join the Jubilee Party. On Tuesday, Ruto appealed to the Wiper Party leader to cross over to Jubilee, saying there was a power struggle within the Coalition for Reforms and Democracy (CORD) where Kalonzo is competing with Raila Odinga and Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula for the Opposition&rsquo;s presidential ticket. Addressing meetings in Kibwezi and Emali towns in Makueni County, Ruto said Kalonzo&rsquo;s political survival in the Opposition was untenable. Gather courage &ldquo;We welcome your leader to gather courage and cross over to this other side because in his own words he has indicated that CORD is a house full of trouble,&rdquo; said Ruto. READ MORE Panel to pick poll officials listed as current team quits Uhuru, Ruto go for Kalonzo to hit Raila Apology The DP rallied the region to back the newly formed party, saying the community would reap more benefits by working with the Government than with the Opposition. &ldquo;It is crystal clear that JP will win the next General Election and it is only fair for the community to ensure its stake in the next government is guaranteed,&rdquo; he said. The promised a bag of goodies for Lower Eastern, including the Sh54 billion Thwake multi-purpose dam whose construction will begin in January. &ldquo;The Sh54 billion Thwake dam will be the single largest dam investment in independent Kenya and will take around three years to complete. We are doing that because we have taken cognisance of the pressing water crisis in Ukambani,&rdquo; he said. So far, Sh1.4 billion had been set aside to compensate local residents affected by the dam, which will serve large-scale agricultural activities, hydro-power generation and domestic consumption. Ruto also announced that President Uhuru Kenyatta will on October 21 commission the tarmacking of the Kibwezi-Mutomo road at a cost of Sh14 billion. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;