The plenary discussion on the status of higher education in Kenya this week could not have come at a better time. It has brought to the fore the numerous challenges facing both public and private universities that call for immediate action. The Commission for University Education (CUE) CEO David Some admitted that some students, especially those enrolled in school-based courses, graduate before attaining the required learning hours. This only confirms the long-held view that some universities are churning out half-baked graduates. This is not only a disservice to the graduates but also to the country&#39;s ability to produce a capable workforce. It dents the credibility of the education system. The Ministry of Education and CUE must make universities deliver quality education through robust supervision and strict adherence to the rules and regulations. The commission must take punitive action against the culprits. Threats are not deterrents for seeking to bend the rules. Research and field work have for instance been neglected in many university courses. Authorities must insist on properly supervised research projects before students are allowed to graduate. In the same vein, there is a new Bill in Parliament that if passed into law, will radically change the admission process and allow universities to directly admit students. This will effectively take away the mandate from the Kenya Universities and Colleges Central Placement Service (KUCCPS). Vice chancellors and other players have rejected that proposal and this newspaper agrees with them. The placement authority is better placed to ensure fairness and merit in admission of students. The placement of students at respective colleges is supposed to enhance meritocracy, transparency and equity in higher education. MPs should debate the Government-sponsored Universities (Amendment) Bill carefully and delete clauses that might put more hurdles in the delivery of quality higher education. READ MORE State to scrap some university courses Parents protest over directive to buy new JKUAT laptops CS Matiang'i breathes fire in call for reforms