Deputy President William Ruto&rsquo;s party, URP, was the first Jubilee affiliate outfit to adopt a proposal to dissolve at Kasarani, Nairobi Thursday. Mr Ruto was in Arusha, Tanzania attending the East African Community Heads of State meeting. He was represented at the folding of his party and subsequent merger with other Jubilee affiliated parties by the National Assembly Leader of Majority Aden Duale. His allies described the merger as a historic step destined to move the country from politics of ethnic balkanization to issue-based politics. Led by Mr Duale and Senate Deputy Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen, the leaders said they were on a path to uniting the country by folding regional political outfits that only &quot;promote tribalism and election-instigated clashes&quot;. Duale said the merger process marked the beginning of a contest between Kenyans who believe in a united country and those who use their ethnicities to ascend to power. READ MORE Another chapter of unity emerges ahead of Jubilee Party launch No fanfare as JAP exits and Jubilee enters Kanu accuses Jubilee of using its colours &ldquo;We are setting the stage for those who believe in the unity of the country,&rdquo; said Duale. Duale said the move taken by the 13 political parties was strategic as it would see Jubilee retain power beyond 2017 by bringing &ldquo;all communities on board&rdquo;. &ldquo;We have strategic plans for 10 to 20 years and after 2017 we must ensure that Ruto becomes the President. URP is not there yet, we will only achieve our dreams when Ruto becomes the President in 2022,&rdquo; he added. Senator Murkomen said what URP had done was not a threat to democracy but part of efforts aimed at uniting the country. &ldquo;We dream of having a country that promotes politics of unity. For those saying we should form village parties, we are telling them that our intention is to have a national party,&rdquo; said the Elgeyo Marakwet senator. Murkomen insisted that the merging parties were not killing their outfits but moving the country &ldquo;from a nation that is used to politics of tribalism to a country that is uniting people.&rdquo; GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;