Political aspirants in Mt Kenya region have threatened to ditch Jubilee Party over biased representation at the September 10 delegates&rsquo; conference. The over 50 political hopefuls, who are part of the Aspirants Caucus, say they would seek other options as they fear the nomination process would be flawed. Nyeri senatorial aspirant Wambugu Nyamu, who spoke on behalf of the aspirants during a meeting at Greenhills Hotel, said the incumbents would have an edge if they become automatic members of the party leadership team. His sentiments were echoed by their chairman Machira Gichohi, who is seeking to unseat Governor Nderitu Gachagua. &ldquo;After the delegate&rsquo;s conference, we are aware that the incumbents will be automatic members of the county Jubilee Party team and will provide delegates to attend&quot;. &ldquo;This will give the incumbents undue advantage over the aspirants, which to us is undemocratic,&rdquo; said Gichohi. READ MORE Kenyan MPs, senators and governors owe parties millions in subscription fees CORD and Jubilee in scramble for Mudavadi ahead of 2017 election Why political parties in Kenya charge for membership He also pointed out that some of the parties that dissolved to join JP had never held any elections. Among the parties that folded is the Grand National Union, which sponsored Nyeri Governor Nderitu Gachagua in the last General Election. On Friday, Gachagua, whose GNU party is among those that have agreed to fold to join JP, said the nomination process would be conducted in a free and fair manner. He however, voiced his support for the proposal by the Parliamentary Select Committee on election commission to bar individuals who lose in party nominations from decamping to other parties. But Gichohi said that party-hopping was mainly caused by irregularities in primaries. &quot;Jubilee Party was formed to foster unity in the country but if the nomination process is not all-inclusive and handled democratically, the party will fall short of its mandate,&rdquo; he said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;