Fresh and seasoned politicians have declared their interest in the Nandi gubernatorial seat. Most of the aspirants are eyeing the Jubilee Party ticket in a region where Deputy President William Ruto enjoys a huge following. Former ODM Chairman and long-time Tinderet MP Henry Kosgey, former Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Felix Koskei, former High Commissioner to Australia Stephen Tarus and Moi University lecturer Dr Alfred Serem are among prominent names eyeing the county seat. Aspirants have been using church fundraisers, community projects and social gatherings to woo voters in a bid to unseat Governor Cleophas Lagat. &nbsp;LOST BID There are also a number of candidates who have expressed their interest, but have not fully gone public since they are still serving in the civil service while others are in the private sector. READ MORE ODM launches anniversary celebrations Two parties withdraw from Jubilee merger deal Divorce party affairs from functions of State Mr Kosgey, who was recently appointed by President Uhuru Kenyatta as chairman of Tourism Fund, was elected six times as MP for Tinderet. He lost in his senatorial bid in 2013 to Stephen Sang. He had contested for the Senate seat on an ODM ticket in the last General Election despite the enormous popularity of URP in Rift Valley, a party led by Deputy President&nbsp; William Ruto that will dissolve during the Jubilee Party merger at the Kasarani convention. After falling out from ODM, Ruto and Kosgey read from different political scripts, with the former deciding to form a new political front while the latter stuck with former Prime Minister Raila Odinga. &ldquo;If you elect me, I will accord equal representation to all the one million residents of Nandi County. I will be a governor for all, not a few people,&rdquo; Kosgey, who will run on Jubilee ticket, said when he declared his interest at a church function in the county. Mr Koskei is also criss-crossing the six constituencies popularising his bid for the governor race come 2017. Koskei gained prominence in the region when he served as Agriculture Cabinet secretary. This will be his first time running for elective politics, and he has assured residents of servant leadership if given the opportunity. Also in the race is former ambassador Stephen Tarus who lost in URP nominations for the same seat in 2013. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;