A clan settlement that could see the entire political leadership in Mandera County replaced is gaining momentum in north eastern. Three weeks ago, a 20-member Garre Council of Elders meeting at the border town of Banisa agreed that most leaders in the county should not defend their seats in the 2017 election for the sake of the community&rsquo;s unity in the 20 sub clans. And now, similar forms of so-called negotiated democracy appears to be taking shape in Garissa, Wajir and Marsabit counties, sparking heated debate as leaders take different positions. At a ceremony attended by hundreds of residents and leaders at Bourargy Primary School last Saturday, the Abduwak clan - one of the big clans in Garissa endorsed Ali Korane for gubernatorial seat against Governor Nathif Jama. Garissa County is dominated by the Ogaden Somali community, which has three clans; the Abdulwak, Auliyan and Samawathal. The overriding argument is to maintain inter-clan unity and harmony. The Auliyan clan has two constituencies, Lagdera and Dadaab, while the Abuduwak clan has three; Garissa Township, Fafi and Balambala. READ MORE It's official: Waiguru joins Kirinyaga County gubernatorial race Jubilee party to transform into Uhuru's re-election vehicle for 2017 polls Senators' fresh onslaught against governors as 2017 nears Decide on fate As stated by an elder from Abduwak, the elders will meet to decide on the fate of Balambala MP Abdikhadir Aden, Elyas Bare Shill (Fafi), Abdinoor Mohamed (nominated MP) and MCAs. According to Aden Mohamed, one of the elders from the Abduwak clan, the National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale who comes from the sub-clan will be allowed to defend his seat but Mbalambala MP and his Fafi counterpart could be casualties of the &lsquo;negotiated democracy&rsquo;. &ldquo;In our arrangement that will reached in two weeks, Mbalambala and Fafi will be the two constituencies that would be traded in by the sub-clan so as to retain the governorship position and that of Garissa Town seat,&rdquo; said Mohammed. Mohammed said they will decide if they want to change the current set up of MPs and MCAs but hinted that Duale, given his political seniority in the Jubilee coalition would most likely be let off the hook. Similar endorsement is expected in Wajir, among the Fai, the biggest sub-clan in the county predominantly in Tarbaj and Wajir East constituencies. In Marsabit, there is a similar pact that elders agreed on and endorsed NHIF board chairman Mohammed Ali as their Jubilee preferred candidate was final. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;