Rowdy youth on Saturday disrupted a meeting convened by purported Jubilee Party (JP) Nakuru County interim chairman. The youth stormed the meeting at the party&rsquo;s office in Nakuru town&rsquo;s Milimani Estate and used rotten eggs to disperse those in attendance. The meeting had been convened by prominent Naivasha businessman James Karimi - the self-appointed interim chairman. Hell broke loose when the youth overturned chairs and pelted the party supporters with stones, forcing them out of the compound. Mr Karimi was hit on the head with an egg as he was preparing to address journalists to explain why he had called the meeting. The youth accused Karimi of creating divisions among local Jubilee members and leaders. READ MORE Jubilee, Ford Kenya intensify campaigns in Trans Nzoia Leaders divided on whether PNU will be a liability or asset to Jubilee ODM fights to lock out Jubilee in Kisii &ldquo;Mr Karimi knows very well that he is not supposed to hold a meeting without consulting other Jubilee leaders, but he has chosen to ignore them and gone ahead to impose himself as the JP Nakuru County chairman,&rdquo; said Charles Kiarie, alias Koches. Kiarie said the youth were angered by Karimi&rsquo;s decision to hold the meeting, despite President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s directive that interim party officials will be unveiled later this month. But Karimi denied claims that he had imposed himself as the party&rsquo;s county chairman, saying his meeting was meant to popularise the party. &ldquo;I made a personal decision to popularise JP in Nakuru town. There is no way the President can launch a party and we fail to sell it to the masses,&rdquo; he said. He explained that a banner with his photograph on one the trucks he was using, referring to himself as chairman, was meant for his campaign for the party chairmanship. Karimi&rsquo;s group is said to enjoy the support of Governor Kinuthia Mbugua, MPs Kimani Ngunjiri (Bahati), Samuel Arama (Nakuru Town West) and Naivasha&rsquo;s John Kahigi. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;