President&nbsp;Uhuru&nbsp;Kenyatta and Opposition leader&nbsp;Raila&nbsp;Odinga&rsquo;s camps face major dilemma in working on a formula that will stop mass defections before and after party primaries. A fallout in both the Jubilee Party and the Coalition for Reforms and Democracy (CORD) after party primaries could have far-reaching political ramifications during the&nbsp; presidential vote. The two camps are working on a plan to nominate or appoint their candidates who lose in the primaries to positions where they can have political influence. In CORD, a battle of titans is expected in Orange Democratic Movement&rsquo;s (ODM) turf of Nyanza, where multiple aspirants for various seats will be chasing the party ticket. Another fiery clash is expected in Mombasa and Kakamega counties where CORD affiliate parties have lined up their top party officials to square it out in a contest that threatens to scuttle the coalition&rsquo;s unity. In the newly-formed Jubilee Party, governor aspirants are uneasy in Central and Rift Valley, where President Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto command huge support. Jubilee merger co-chair Noah Wekesa and JP Secretary General Veronica Maina say the new outfit is working on a plan to ensure that it presents a united&nbsp; front when it goes into the General Election. READ MORE Litmus test for Jubilee Party in by-election There are no divisions in CORD, Raila Odinga says Raila tours William Ruto&rsquo;s backyard, says he&rsquo;s not to blame for ICC cases The party will either nominate or offer top party posts to individuals who lose the primaries . &ldquo;We will make sure our number two and three in the nominations work with number one because when it comes to the party list for nomination, they will be given priority. Others will be considered for State jobs,&rdquo; says Wekesa, the ethics of this&nbsp;move&nbsp;obviously not a consideration. Ms Maina says they expect hotly-contested primaries in JP strongholds since the majority of candidates would want to run on the party&rsquo;s ticket. Awkward scenarios In CORD, ODM chairman John Mbadi admits that the coalition was staring at awkward&nbsp; scenarios in Mombasa and Kakamega should ODM, Wiper and Ford Kenya fail to field joint candidates for the seats. Wiper Secretary General Hassan Omar and Ford Kenya deputy party leader Boni Khalwale have opposed proposals for CORD to have joint candidates in all seats across the country. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;