NAIROBI: The minimum sentences for sexual offences continue to draw criticism from judges who want the law changed to allow them make independent decisions. The judges&#39; arguments are that the Sexual Offences Act has tied their hands and interfered with their discretion when determining the sentence to hand a suspect, even in cases where underage victims are the ones to blame. Attorney General Githu Muigai has been seeking the opinion of candidates interviewed for the position of Chief Justice and those currently battling for the DCJ on how it should be changed. &quot;The country is faced by various dilemmas as a result of inconsistencies created by various legislation like the Sexual Offences Act. These are some of the tough questions my office has been grappling with and which the candidates needed to express their opinion,&quot; said Prof Muigai. According to the AG, inconsistencies and dilemma created by the Act has been noted by his office and they are grappling with how to help the situation. Section 8 of the Sexual Offences Act provides that a person who defiles a child aged 11 or less shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to life imprisonment, while a person who defiles a child between the age of 12 and 15 is liable to imprisonment for a term not less than 20 years. READ MORE Plan to sell sugar firms runs into fresh headwinds New Bill seals loophole exploited by child defilers Focus turns to 15 as search for Kenya&rsquo;s new Deputy CJ starts Those convicted of defiling children between 16 and 18 years are liable to not less than 15 years imprisonment while attempting to defile a child attracts a minimum of 10 years in jail. Rape on the other hand is punished with minimum 10 years in jail, which can however be enhanced to life imprisonment. Chief Justice nominee Justice David Maraga sympathised with young boys who have been jailed as a result of the Sexual Offences Act, saying the law was unfair to them and that it should be changed to allow judges determine the sentence depending on each case. Justice Maraga proposed during his interview by the Judicial Service Commission that a special institution should be established for child sex offenders given that the issue is a deep societal problem that cannot be solved by having long jail sentences. &quot;We must understand that the young boys who are punished as a result of the Sexual Offences Act are our children who are trying to discover themselves and if we continue to punish them that way, then we are doing injustice. We need to relook into that law and amend it,&quot; said Judge Maraga. When Justice Said Chitembwe set free a man serving 20 years in jail for defiling a 13-year-old girl in May, he noted that the country should think of a way of changing the legal age in which a girl should be mature for sex to avoid jailing even those have consensual intercourse with girls below 18 years. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;