SRINAGAR, India:&nbsp;India accused Pakistan of being behind Sunday&#39;s separatist attack on an army base near their disputed frontier that killed 17 soldiers, in one of the most deadly attacks in Kashmir in a quarter-century-old insurgency. Four commando-style gunmen, armed with AK-47 assault rifles and grenades, burst into the brigade headquarters in Uri at 5:30 a.m. (midnight GMT) and were killed after a three-hour gunfight, a senior Indian army officer said. The incident sharply increased tensions between the bitter, nuclear-armed rivals and will raise fears of a potential military escalation. Indian and Pakistani troops are in close proximity in many places along one of the world&#39;s most heavily militarised frontiers, and exchanges of fire are not uncommon. Lieutenant General Ranbir Singh told reporters in New Delhi that Sunday&#39;s attack bore the hallmarks of Pakistan-based militant group Jaish-e-Mohammed. Evidence gathered at the scene indicated the attackers were foreign and their equipment bore Pakistani markings, he added. &quot;Our men are ready to give a befitting response,&quot; Singh said in response to a reporter&#39;s question. He did not elaborate. Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi strongly condemned what he called the &quot;cowardly terror attack&quot;. READ MORE Why young women opt to train as suicide bombers Somali general, 7 bodyguards killed in suspected car bomb attack Al Shabaab attacks Somali town near Kenyan border, kill 7 troops &quot;I assure the nation that those behind this despicable attack will not go unpunished,&quot; Modi said in a series of Twitter posts. The raid came as tensions were already running high in India&#39;s only Muslim-majority region, which has faced more than two months of protests following the July 8 killing of the commander of another Pakistan-based separatist group. At least 78 civilians have been killed and thousands injured in street clashes with Indian security forces, who have been criticised by human rights groups for using excessive force. In an even stronger response, Indian Home Minister Rajnath Singh tweeted: &quot;Pakistan is a terrorist state and should be identified and isolated as such.&quot; Pakistan rejected allegations that it was involved. &quot;India immediately puts blame on Pakistan without doing any investigation. We reject this,&quot; foreign ministry spokesman Nafees Zakaria told Reuters. India and Pakistan have fought two of their three wars since independence from Britain in 1947 over Kashmir, which is divided between them. Both claim the former princely state in full. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;