&nbsp; Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, Elgeyo Marakwet&rsquo;s Alex Tolgos and Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi arrived at DCI headquarters for grilling over incitement remarks they made over the Moi University Vice Chancellor saga.PHOTO: COURTESY Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, Elgeyo Marakwet&rsquo;s Alex Tolgos and Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi arrived at DCI headquarters for grilling over incitement remarks they made over the Moi University Vice Chancellor saga. &nbsp;The three and other leaders were summoned by police for questioning following their utterances on the appointment of professor Laban Ayiro as acting vice chancellor. They arrived at DCI headquarters along Kiambu Road at about 1pm and were ushered to interrogation rooms. Police had been waiting for them for hours. Police said they were investigating incitement claims&nbsp;among other issues . Others expected to record statements over incitement are MPs Alfred Keter (Nandi Hills), James Bett (Kesses) and Tiren Silas (Moiben), police said. Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery had ordered they be questioned saying they risked arrest if they failed to record the statements. He said the six incited the public to protest against the university&#39;s management. The politicians wanted Professor Isaac Kosgey, not Ayiro, appointed because he topped interviews. Mandago requested prayers during a church event in Eldoret on Monday saying &ldquo;as human beings we are bound to make mistakes&quot;. They later said at no time did they declare that &#39;outsiders&#39; were not wanted at the University. &quot;This is a misconception created which we wish to correct. At no time did we say or imply that we wanted our own to lead the University. We regret the fact that we have been branded tribalists, which we are not,&quot; they said in a joint statement to the media. The governors reiterated their earlier stand that they stood for merit in the appointment of the next VC and demanded that the recruitment process be immediately made public to end the ongoing speculations. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;