Opposition leader Raila Odinga has sparked another row with President Uhuru Kenyatta&#39;s administration over a multi-billion-shilling water project. Raila yesterday warned against the construction of Sh6.8 billion Northern Water Collector Tunnel designed to address chronic water shortage in Nairobi and its environs, citing conservation concerns. He accused the Jubilee Government of working secretly on the project, which is located along the eastern fringes of the Aberdare conservation area in Murang&#39;a County, and which he cautioned would turn parts of the country into a desert. Speaking at his Capitol Hills offices in Nairobi, Raila told President Kenyatta to immediately stop the World Bank-funded water project until a comprehensive audit on environmental concerns raised by residents is done. Raila cited lack of public participation in the project, which he described as &quot;tunnels of death&quot;, warning that its implementation would deny residents of Murang&#39;a, Ukambani, Garissa, Tana River and other parts of the Coast their source of livelihood. &quot;The secrecy surrounding this project is by design. Even the Jubilee Government knows it is a bad project. It will turn Murang&#39;a, Garissa, Ukambani and Tana Delta regions into a desert within five years of implementation,&quot; Raila said. READ MORE Orengo opposes IEBC invitation for bids to audit voter's register Build on President Zuma's visit How newly passed Finance Act will affect the money in your pocket Project launch However, National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale, Water Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa and Government Spokesperson Eric Kiraithe reminded the CORD leader that he was the one who launched the project when he was prime minister in 2012. Mr Wamalwa said Kenyans must guard against a trend where major infrastructure projects were being frustrated for political reasons. The Government declared it would continue with the project, which is set to provide Nairobi residents with additional 140 million litres of water, doubling the current flow in the city. But Raila immediately countered the CS&#39;s assertions, explaining that the project he had launched at KICC was drilling of 203 boreholes in Ruiru. The Standard reported on September 19, 2012, that Raila, the then PM, graced the launch of a Sh160 billion plan that included sinking wells in Kiunyu and Ruiru in phase one, construction of a tunnel diverting Irati, Gikigie and Maragua rivers for phase two and the third phase was to build dams including in Maragua and Ndarugu. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;