South Rift tea farmers should blame consumer preferences for tea from Eastern region for the low bonuses they receive, Kenya Tea Development Agency (KTDA) Managing Director Lerionka Tiampati says. He says consumers prefers tea grown in the Eastern region because it is of higher quality, and this affects pricing and bonuses. &ldquo;The quality of green leaf is determined by ecological and climatic features such as types of soil and quantity of rainfall, as well as the quality of farm management practices such as application of fertiliser, pruning and plucking,&rdquo; Mr Tiampati says. Tea Research Institute (TRI) centre director Samson Kamunya stresses the point, saying that AHP S15/10, which is widely grown by farmers in the West of Rift produces lower quality black tea than TRFK 6/8 grown in the East of Rift. &ldquo;Indeed, studies have shown that TRFK 6/8 plucked even at four leaves and a bud produces better quality tea than two leaves and a bud of AHP S15/10,&rdquo; says Kamunya. Cultural practices READ MORE We must jealously guard tea sector&rsquo;s role in economy Why tea bonus prices vary across factories High global tea prices lift farmer earnings to record Sh84 billion He adds that besides majority of tea farmers in the East of Rift growing TRFK 6/8, they also apply the recommended cultural practices such as fine plucking (picking two leaves and a bud), which most growers in the West of Rift don&rsquo;t. The TRI centre director says the tea growing environment in the Eastern region is also more favourable than that of the Rift Valley. &ldquo;For example, temperatures around Mt Kenya and Aberdares are, on average, lower than the temperatures in most of the West Rift tea growing areas. The low temperatures result in slow accumulation of phytochemicals such as polyphenols that influence tea quality,&rdquo; says Kamunya. He argues that the higher temperatures and longer rains in the West of Rift favour faster leafy growth with low accumulated phytochemicals, leading to higher yields but lower quality. Farmers in Kericho and Bomet have complained of low bonuses they expect to get from the Sh84 billion released by KTDA. Of the total amount, the South Rift farmers will only receive Sh13.11 billion. KTDA&rsquo;s region five comprising Kericho and Bomet counties host at least seven tea factories and an equal number of satelite factories. The factories are Tegat, Litein, Kapkatet, Momul, Kapkoros, Kapset and Mogosiek. The satelite ones are Toror, Chelal, Tirgaga, Olenguruone, Rorok, Kobel and Boito. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;