Last Sunday, Daniel Wesangula published a front-page news item under the headline &ldquo;Former PM named in KQ cargo saga&rdquo; in The Standard on Sunday issue of that day. He continued with the story on page 4 and 5 of the newspaper under the headline &ldquo;Raila named in questionable winding up of KQ&rsquo;s profitable cargo arm&rdquo;. I complained to the management of The Standard Group that Daniel Wesangula had defamed Mr Odinga since the story was erroneous and written with the sole intention of linking the former Prime Minister to the ongoing crisis at Kenya Airways. It is as a consequence of this complaint that the management of The Standard Group has set aside this space in today&rsquo;s paper for Mr Odinga to exercise his right to reply. The first glaring flaw in the story written by Daniel Wesangula is the time and the timing. The events that Wesangula was attempting to analyse took place in the year 2004. That is 12 year ago. These events are made prominent in the middle of an ongoing debate regarding losses made by Kenya Airways in the years 2015 and 2016. READ MORE Leaked: President Uhuru&rsquo;s secret views on Kibaki, Raila CORD is more united than ever, Raila declares Revealed: Contents of Kenya Airways deal that handed McKinsey billions The reader gets the impression that the events of 2004 and 2015-2016 are contemporaneous which enables the writer to carry out his malicious motive; to link Mr Odinga to the Kenya Airways crisis. This link is actually alleged blatantly and done in two steps. Firstly, Wesangula says that the shutting down of Kenya Airways cargo handing &ldquo;may have contributed to the near financial ruin of the national carrier&rdquo;. Wesangula does not say how this could have been. He just says it does. But as I have stated, these events are 12 years apart. Wesangula owed it to the reader to show how a management decision made in 2004 came to be a contributor to the near collapse of the business more than a decade later. But Wesangula does not establish even a tenuous link. On the contrary, the figures of KQ&rsquo;s performance indicate that apart from the year 2009, the company made profits every year from 2004 to 2012. It is logical to conclude that however inadvisable the decision by the Kenya Airways Board of Directors was on the &ldquo;shutting down&rdquo; of its cargo handling unit, it did not affect the profitability of the airline and is absolutely irrelevant to the over Sh70 billion loses that the company has accumulated since the year 2013. But Wesangula not only says it is relevant; he says that in fact, Mr Odinga had a role to play. He wrote: &ldquo;The cargo unit, Kencargo International Limited (KK), was shut down in 2004 and the cargo handling business outsourced to a competitor whose list of original shareholders includes the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party leader Raila Odinga, who also doubled as a KQ shareholder&rdquo;. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;