His love for alcohol was unmatched. In fact, he sold his land in Eldama Ravine just to get money to buy chang&rsquo;aa. And after years of drinking, 70-year-old Kiplagat arap Tek of Tumon village today has nothing. He also ended up with a condition that disabled him. As if that were not enough, his wife and children deserted him, unable to put up with is behaviour anymore. Now doctors say he must undergo surgery to walk again, his condition worsened by jigger infestation. Tears roll down his cheeks as he narrates his story. Tek says his troubles started in 2012 when he lost his ability to walk. Doctors could not restore him. He was later informed only surgery could help him. He could afford food, let alone money to pay hospital bills. &ldquo;I had been warmed against drinking but I didn&rsquo;t listen. Now I have been reduced to a pauper. I move around by crawling. It&rsquo;s horrible,&rdquo; says Tek. PLASTIC CUP READ MORE Tullow set to resume oil exploration in Baringo Killer brews found in politician's house Bill seeks to ensure that minerals benefit locals &ldquo;Doctors say I have a disease that can kill me anytime. I sold my land and now I have nothing. I urinate on myself and do everything while seated. There is no one to help me,&rdquo; Tek says from his dilapidated mud house. His only possessions are a plastic cup, a crushed kettle and a dirty sufuria abandoned next to the fire place. However, brewing and selling illicit brews is the order of the day in nearly all villages in Poror sub-county. It is not unusual to find an entire family engaged in selling chang&rsquo;aa. Locals blame it on unemployment and poverty. Illiteracy levels are also high in the region. Villagers are said to hunt liquor the way a lion hunts its prey. They move from one village to another in search of chang&rsquo;aa. Police have not made the situation any better. They have been accused of allowing brewers to carry out their trade after receiving bribes, sometimes in form of liquor. Those interviewed said poverty has driven them into drinking, It is the only way they drown their sorrows, even if momentarily. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;