Republican US presidential nominee Donald Trump&rsquo;s campaign rallies have turned into eruptions of barely contained emotions from his impassioned followers, who urge him to fight on despite a series of gut punches that have put his chances of winning in doubt. With the November 8 election now only weeks away and polls turning against him, Trump is spending precious time in campaign speeches defending himself from accusations from several women who say he made unwanted sexual advances toward them. What he would do if elected is covered, but much of his speeches are spent belittling his Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton. He also accuses the US news media of a plot to bring him down, and charges that the women who have made the accusations against him might be doing it for a taste of fame. Opinion polls show a gloomy picture for Trump. A week after a video surfaced of him bragging in lewd terms about groping women, the latest Reuters-Ipsos poll on Friday showed Clinton up, with 44 per cent to Trump&rsquo;s 37 per cent. And the crowds have gotten more protective of their hero. One woman at a rally in Cincinnati, Ohio, on Thursday wore a homemade T-shirt that said &ldquo;Trump Can Grab My,&rdquo; with an arrow pointing to her c***. On Friday in Greensboro, North Carolina, a man wearing a &ldquo;Gays for Trump&rdquo; shirt punched a protester who held up an upside down American flag. Both were ejected. Trump&rsquo;s message has gotten through to his supporters in a big way about Clinton, who Trump calls a criminal for her handling of classified information as Secretary of State. &ldquo;She would be the most dishonest and corrupt ever elected to high office,&rdquo; he said. READ MORE How Trump rallies the faithful: Belittle Clinton, news media Clinton heavily favored to win Electoral College: poll 'Absolutely false,' Trump says defiantly after women's groping allegations Lock her up A crowd of young voters had a ready response when he brought up Clinton at an event in Columbus, Ohio, on Thursday. &ldquo;Lock her up!&rdquo; they chanted, mimicking the lines voiced by older voters at other events. Trump could only smile and shake his head. &ldquo;So young and so jaded already,&rdquo; he said. The New York businessman feeds off the energy generated by crowds that pack his rallies by the thousands. But he is easily distracted, lurching from topic to topic based on whatever happens to sprint to mind. On Wednesday in Lakeland, Florida, Trump jumped from bashing the news media as &ldquo;the most dishonest people you will ever see,&rdquo; to tout his performance at a debate in St Louis on Sunday - &ldquo;which I won big league&rdquo; - to Clinton&rsquo;s stroll across the stage in front of him at that event. &ldquo;And the papers said I invaded her space,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Believe me, the last space I want to invade is hers.&rdquo; There are moments of levity. A woman who recovered from a brief fainting spell in the heat of Lakeland was pointed out by Trump. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;