A young man charged with groping a woman in Mombasa has told a magistrate he was carried away by her beauty after five months of unsuccessful seduction. Alexander Mbondo&nbsp;admitted touching the woman without her consent, claiming that he &ldquo;lost control of his hands&rdquo; at the sight of the woman, whom he described as &ldquo;intensely beautiful and striking&rdquo;. The suspect, who pleaded guilty to the charge of indecent assault when he appeared in court on Thursday, was freed on a bond of Sh100,000 with two sureties of the same amount after the magistrate refused to accept his plea. He also had the option of paying a cash bail of Sh20,000. Mombasa Principle Magistrate Henry Nyakweba also directed the OCS of Central Police Station, where Mr Mbondo was detained on Monday, to appear in court to explain why he was not charged within 24 hours. Mbondo, who was unrepresented, denied that on unknown dates between April and September 2016 at Coast Drapers of Fontanella Building in Mombasa, he intentionally touched the woman&rsquo;s breasts and buttocks against her will. READ MORE Fix ferry services to avert looming disaster Teacher on the run after defiling seven of his pupils Police arrest man accused of raping jobless women in Nairobi Full hearing The magistrate said he wanted to listen to the woman before passing judgement and ordered the matter to proceed to a full hearing. &ldquo;I have listened to your explanation and find that you have pleaded not guilty. I want your accuser to come and give her side of the story so that we can know who was in the wrong&rdquo; said Mr Nyakweba. Sporting a blue polo T-shirt and grey jeans, Mbondo said he was sorry for fondling the woman and asked for forgiveness. &ldquo;Your honour, it is true I touched the buttocks and breasts of this girl because I have been seducing her to marry her as I am still a single man. I swear I love this woman,&rdquo; he said. The magistrate sought to know from the prosecution if the charges against the accused were in line with the law. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;