A family is spending nights in the cold after their houses were torched by unknown people. During the arson attack in Igembe North constituency, Meru County, the family of the late Peter Meme was forced to flee for fear of bodily harm. The family claimed a former tenant at their rental houses at Laare market might have been behind the attack. Family members William Kanampiu, Joseph M&#39;Kailanya and Faith Kathure said the suspect had been demanding to be recognised as one of the heirs to the estate left behind by the late Meme. They said their tormentor started by refusing to pay rent, claiming he was also a family member and forcing them to seek the intervention of the courts. They further alleged after they refused to accommodate him, he turned violent and started threatening them with unspecified consequences. READ MORE Jubilee merger becomes reality ahead of September launch Rethink Senate's action Appeal judges spare man who killed kin from death sentence The man was however ordered by the court to clear the rent arrears amounting to Sh72,000. &quot;We have documents to prove that the court ordered him to pay all his arrears, failure to which he should be arrested and charged in court, but that has not happened,&quot; said Mr Kanampiu. According to the family spokesman, it has been eight months since the court gave the directive to arrest the suspect, who is still walking free. &quot;We were surprised that the suspect could manage to burn down our houses in four different occasions without the police arresting him, despite being informed. We suspect the officers have been compromised and are protecting the suspect instead of arresting him,&quot; said Kanampiu. &quot;We have now been turned into beggars since the family cannot engage in any meaningful activity owing to the many threats,&quot; said Kanampiu&#39;s daughter-in-law, Ms Kathure. Igembe North sub-county assistant county commissioner, Malack Namai, has ordered for the immediate arrest of three suspects, who were linked to the arson. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;