Retired President Daniel Moi yesterday celebrated his 92nd birthday in unique style by handing over a multi-million-shilling arts complex at the Kabarak University. The former Head of State, who also planted a tree outside Daniel Moi Library to commemorate his birthday, described the School of Music and Performing Arts Complex as a dream come true and asked Kenyans to utilise it to the fullest. He later proceeded to his Kabarak home for celebrations with family members. Here, a cake presented by Kabarak University was cut and served to Moi and other dignitaries present. Moi thanked Kenyans for standing with him throughout. &ldquo;For 30 years I have been thinking of establishing a centre of church music excellence. With its opening, the ground is set to facilitate teaching of music education, music composition and production,&rdquo; he said. Birthday card Moi High School Kabarak presented a beautiful birthday card to its patron. The students also sang, danced and played musical instruments, as they thanked God for granting the former President long life. READ MORE Mzee Jomo Kenyatta paved the way for all that is great in Kenya today Moi said apart from equipping learners with relevant skills in music education and performance, many people will find Kabarak University a well-equipped facility for training in Christian music education. The complex will house lecturers&rsquo; offices, classrooms, a music recording studio, the university radio station, amphitheater for live performance, a library and music laboratory. Moi said he was sure the facility would adequately encourage and support music education and research at undergraduate and post-graduate levels. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s my prayer that the school of music will offer courses leading to employment opportunities for our graduates as music directors, lecturers and researchers in colleges and universities. I am hopeful that this school will last beyond 200 years and positively impact many lives in Kenya, Eastern Africa region and beyond,&rdquo; said Moi, the founder of Kabarak learning institutions. While thanking Kenyans for the tireless support they gave his father while in office and after, Baringo Senator Gideon Moi said the former President&rsquo;s style of leadership has touched many Kenyans in a special way. Gideon said Moi&rsquo;s blessings are manifested all over the country through personal contributions towards society developments and individual lives. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;