The examination council may no longer have arbitrary powers to cancel national examination results. According to a new Bill before Parliament, the Kenya National Examination Council (KNEC), will be required to notify candidates suspected of cheating of the accusations against them and give them an opportunity to defend themselves, including representation by a lawyer. And should the council decide to cancel the results of the candidates, those aggrieved will have a right to appeal to an independent body within 28 days, says the Kenya National Examination Council (Amendment) Bill, 2016.&nbsp; The examination body, which clashes with parents, teachers and students over cancellation of thousands of examination results over irregularities every year, will in future be forced to justify such decisions should the proposed law be enacted. The Bill seeks to set standards for such cancellations and protect the rights of affected students. Last year, over 5,000 Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) exam candidates were placed in a quandary after their results were invalidated, adding to thousands of others who have faced a similar fate over the decades. READ MORE 45-year-old school in Baringo County where pupils have sat KCPE exam once Exam cheats face 10-year jail term Exam staff pay fear as ranking returns to Kenya schools Without recourse, affected students are either forced to repeat classes or drop out of school altogether. Parents and affected students will have the right to hire advocates to challenge such decisions, in what might see examination officials fight to defend their actions. &nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;In any disciplinary proceedings under this section, the council (Knec) shall inform the person concerned of the nature of the allegations made against them; afford the person adequate time for the preparation and presentation of their defence, and; afford the person the opportunity of being heard in person or through an advocate,&quot; read the provisions of the Bill. The Bill, published just before MPs broke for recess, will be debated in the current session. It comes weeks before Class Eight and Form Four students sit the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) and Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) Examinations, respectively. Appeals Tribunal GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;