Seven patients died in two hospitals in Nakuru County yesterday as doctors protesting over delayed pay continued with their strike. Five of the patients reportedly died in Nakuru&rsquo;s Provincial General Hospital while two died at Naivasha Sub-County Hospital. The two facilities also stopped admitting patients, apart from emergency cases, as the medical officers and consultants vowed that they would not resume duty. And in Nairobi County, Governor Evans Kidero&rsquo;s government issued a stern warning to striking doctors, saying they would be fired if they did not report to work by today. County Secretary Robert Ayisi complained that despite a court order that suspended the strike, medical workers in the county had failed to return to work even after being paid salaries for the last six months, which was one of the reasons they went on strike. In Nakuru, Joseph Mburu, the superintendent of Naivasha Sub-County Hospital, said 26 medical officers and consultants were on strike. READ MORE Burial delayed for 16 months as two women fight for man's body 17 Indian soldiers, 4 militants killed in Kashmir attack Somali general, 7 bodyguards killed in suspected car bomb attack He said that although the outpatient department was operating normally, services in the wards had been adversely affected. Stayed away &ldquo;We are no longer admitting patients apart from emergencies as the medical officers and consultants have stayed away,&rdquo; he said. But Dr Mburu said the two patients who died at the hospital had been sick for some time and their deaths had nothing to do with the strike. &ldquo;At the moment, we are relying on the few clinical officers present as the county government resolves the matter,&rdquo; he said. At Nakuru Provincial General Hospital, hundreds of patients continued to suffer as their frustrated relatives made arrangements to transfer them to other facilities. By yesterday, patients were being attended to by unsupervised interns and clinical officers as doctors stayed away. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;