Deputy President William Ruto and Opposition leader Raila Odinga visited Kwale County yesterday as the battle for Coast intensifies. Mr Raila, who started a two-day visit of Kwale County yesterday, criticised Jubilee and Mr Ruto, questioning the source of his wealth and accusing him of trying to buy political support. The ODM party leader was in the county to drum up support for his party and open new offices, while Ruto was at Leisure Lodge to open the Law Society of Kenya (LSK) conference. Today Raila will address the LSK conference before heading northwards to other parts of Coast. Raila said Jubilee will never gain influence in Coast unless it implements radical land reforms by returning what he described as stolen land to local squatters. Raila and Ruto continue their separate tours today, with President Uhuru Kenyatta also arriving in Tana River tomorrow where Raila will also address a rally and town hall meeting. After Kwale, Ruto visited Kilifi County last evening. Since Raila&#39;s arrival on Wednesday, rivalry between local leaders has played out in public, with Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya alleging he has been sidelined in the tour despite his steadfast support for the former premier and ODM. Mr Mvurya, reportedly spent his resources and deployed personal vehicles to the airstrip at Ukunda to welcome Raila but was boxed out of access. READ MORE Uhuru, Raila close ranks on IEBC Ruto hits out at professionals who 'rob Kenyans using pen and paper' Consult on poll team, Raila tells President Uhuru While at Ukunda where he opened an ODM office, Raila described the Deputy President as someone &quot;loaded with money whose source is not known&quot; and ready to dish out money to locals. &quot;I know Ruto is coming here with that money to do harambees. When he gives it to you, take it and don&#39;t say thank you but instead ask him to bring more,&quot; said He added that the Jubilee government had been flourishing on lies, corruption and extra-judicial killings. &quot;Jubilee is part of the problem and cannot be part of the solution. The only solution is ODM. We want to vote them out,&quot; he said. On land issues, Raila, who was accompanied by MPs Aisha Jumwa (Kilifi) Mishi Mboko (Mombasa), Suleiman Dori (Msambweni) and Zuleikha Juma (nominated), said President Kenyatta and Ruto cannot be trusted to solve land problems.