NAROK: CORD leader Raila Odinga has called on the Maa communities to remain united as a sign of respect for their fallen leader, William ole Ntimama. Speaking at a pre-burial ceremony at the veteran politician&#39;s Motonyi home yesterday, Raila described Ntimama as the &quot;father&quot; of the Maa and said his was a big blow to the community. &quot;Mti mkuu ukianguka, wana ndege huyumba. Huo mti mkuu ulikuwa hapa (When a big tree falls, the birds suffer. That tree was here). But we believe we shall get another one like him. Out of respect for him, the Maa community should stay united,&quot; he said. The Opposition leader described the former Heritage minister as his close friend who stood with him when he was being vilified for attempting to protect the Mau Forest Complex and who also introduced him to the larger Maa community across the country. Raila praised Ntimama as a great leader who fought tirelessly to address historical injustices faced by the Maasai community since independence. &quot;Mr Ntimama taught me many things about the Maa people and their history. He was a focused man who was keen on the Maasai getting their rights, especially concerning historical land injustices,&quot; he said. READ MORE Raila must repackage himself as political landscape is jolted Raila, Coast leaders accuse Jubilee of economic sabotage and promoting corruption Raila: Jubilee cash is suspect but we are not scared of them Mau FOREST &quot;When I was being opposed for fighting for the conservation of the Mau Forest, Ntimama stood with me. When we formed the Mau Task Force at KICC, we were together. Let us all conserve the Mau in Ntimama&#39;s honour.&quot; The former Prime Minister, who said he had cancelled a planned trip abroad until after the burial of the long-serving Narok North MP, called on leaders to unite the community for prosperity. &quot;Kenya is on the edge 53 years after independence. Tribalism is still high. There is still discrimination on the basis of tribe. These are things we do not want in this country,&quot; he said. Narok North MP Moitalel ole Kenta, who hinted at joining ODM after the dissolution of TNA to form the Jubilee Party, said he would soon announce his next political step.