Mombasa was pregnant with expectation last evening as ODM leader Raila Odinga arrived in the coastal city to a rousing welcome by party supporters and legislators at the Moi International Airport. On arrival, Raila declared that ODM has embarked on a journey to oust Jubilee from power through the ballot, claiming that the ruling coalition was a kleptocracy incapable of understanding and conceiving a radical solution to Coast&rsquo;s intractable problems. Amid cheers, the CORD principal declared that &ldquo;the time has come to usher in a government that has a strategy that looks into the peoples&rsquo; pressing issues, not a government that continues to oppress Kenyans.&quot; He denounced the Jubilee merger, saying the new mega party cannot be distinguished for any known policy. According to the former Prime Minister, nothing can be expected from the merger because it is composed of the same people who have been in government since 2013. He likened Jubilee affiliates to monkeys jumping from forest to forest without changing. &ldquo;A monkey has come out of Kiunga forest and moved to Shimba hills but it is still a monkey and we are the ones who are carrying the [torch] liberation for Kenya,&rdquo; he said. READ MORE In show of might, ODM unveils high-end vehicles for celebrations The inconsistencies in opinion polling Former police IG David Kimaiyo set to announce bid for senatorial seat ODM Deputy Party Leader Hassan Joho, who received Raila, accused Jubilee of using huge sums of money to buy support and bribe leaders. The Mombasa governor said the ruling coalition is mistaken to imagine that everyone can be persuaded to betray their ideals for money. &ldquo;If Jubilee thinks they can buy us into their party, they should know we are in a different level. I am ODM and ODM is in me,&rdquo; he said, adding that &ldquo;the difference between us and them is that we are leaders with a vision and they are looters.&rdquo; Raila later addressed a rally in Changamwe before being hosted to dinner at the Whitesands Hotel to mark the party&rsquo;s 10th anniversary. From Changamwe, Raila, Joho, Kilifi Senator Stewart Madzayo and close to 60 ODM MPs, addressed several rallies at Saba Saba and Kengeleni in Mombasa town. This morning, the CORD principal and other ODM leaders will converge on Mama Ngina Drive in Mombasa for a rally where he will give a speech. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;