From his humble background, Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba&nbsp;Murkomen&nbsp;has undergone a remarkable transformation since being elected in 2013. The son of a squatter,&nbsp;Murkomen&nbsp;grew up in a village in the Embobut Forest but is never shy to remind his constituents during political rallies of his closeness to the powers that be. But his closeness to President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto has come back to haunt him as he prepares to defend his seat in next year&rsquo;s elections. Last weekend, the Senate Deputy Majority Leader was on the receiving end at a peace meeting at Kerio Valley Boys High School after residents took him to task over Jubilee&rsquo;s performance. The meeting was organised by local churches and the county government, ostensibly to pray for peace following a new round of attacks by cattle rustlers. Before the meeting, there were demonstrations led by Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos and former Inspector General (IG) of Police David Kimaiyo, whose recent declaration that he would challenge&nbsp;Murkomen&nbsp;has rattled the county. READ MORE Mudavadi says he is ready for CORD deal ODM MP claims Jubilee planning to rig 2017 elections through skewed voter registration Raila Odinga warns Jubilee of looming 2017 revolution An outspoken defender of the government and a member of the so-called Jubilee &lsquo;Sky Team&rsquo;,&nbsp;Murkomen&nbsp;landed at the meeting to a hostile reception by the residents. The senator, who usually traverses the expansive county in a chopper, has been put&nbsp;under&nbsp;siege&nbsp;by residents to show what the region has gained from his Niko Jikoni (I am in the kitchen) parlance. Even though he surprised many in 2013 when he beat former powerful Minister Nicholas Biwott in the senatorial race, Kimaiyo&rsquo;s entry in the race has forced back to the drawing board. Kimaiyo, the former Inspector General of police and Kenya Airports Authority chairman has said he will seek Kanu&rsquo;s ticket to fight it out with&nbsp;Murkomen&nbsp;who is highly expected to be Jubilee&rsquo;s candidate. Also in the race is Michael Kibiwot, a senior officer with an international NGO. With the current spate of insecurity along the Kerio Valley, the retired police officer has positioned himself as the viable alternative while&nbsp;Murkomen&nbsp;battles accusations that he has done next to nothing to restore peace.&nbsp; GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;