Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa says he might contest for the Trans Nzoia governor&#39;s seat on a Ford Kenya ticket. Speaking at the burial of former Wiper party national treasurer Jennifer Masis, Dr Wamalwa said he would enter the race &quot;if Governor Patrick Khaemba is shaken by aspirants from the Jubilee side&quot;. Over seven candidates are keen to secure the Jubilee ticket for the coveted seat. &quot;We support Khaemba as our governor and we are praying for him but if he is not steadfast, I will join the race and occupy his position,&quot; he told the mourners, including Khaemba. Wamalwa&#39;s declaration comes in the wake reports that after Maurice Bissau defected to Jubilee, the Ford Kenya leadership was considering backing the MP for the seat. Mr Bissau joined Jubilee following a spirited campaign by Water and Irrigation Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa and Woman Representative Janet Nangabo to lure residents of Trans Nzoia to back the Government. READ MORE Gachagua: I wasn't given chance to defend myself All set for Raila tour of western region Treasury blasts governors over Sh33 billion idle cash at CBK Bissau vied for the seat in 2013 on a New Ford Kenya ticket and came second. After the defeat, he defected to Ford Kenya and was a key campaigner for party leader Moses Wetang&#39;ula during the Bungoma Senate by-election. Following his defection, Bissau was received by Jubilee merger steering committee co-chairman Noah Wekesa during the commemoration of the 13th death anniversary of former Vice President Michael Wamalwa in Kitale. Sources in Ford Kenya told The Standard that the Ford Kenya leadership could settle on Wamalwa after Bissau&#39;s defection. Last week, Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago urged Khaemba to join the Government. &quot;My brother, you will not regret it if you join the Government. There are fruits here and you will not be complaining that there isn&#39;t enough land to expand Kitale town,&quot; Mandago told Khaemba during a Kalenjin cultural day event in Kipkeikei Primary School in Cherangany. In response, Khaemba said he had no problem working with the Government. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;