Kasarani Stadium was filled to the rafters yesterday, as thousands of delegates turned up for the official launch of Jubilee Party. From as early as 6am, delegates from the 12 political parties that merged into JP lined up outside Kasarani Stadium, as they waited to be let in to witness the birth of&nbsp; Kenya&rsquo;s youngest political outfit. At the main entrance, hawk-eyed security guards frisked members of the public, and only those with accreditation badges were allowed in. Police officers assisted by National Youth Service recruits put the delegates through a second security screening at the various gates leading into the stadium. The stadium was dotted with the party&rsquo;s thematic colours, red and yellow, and some of the 10,000-odd delegates who missed seats moving into the main football field. Even though the day&rsquo;s programme was slated to start at 9am, the chief guest, President Uhuru Kenyatta, arrived at 1.35pm, accompanied by First Lady Margaret Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto and his wife Rachel. READ MORE Raila must repackage himself as political landscape is jolted Parties must invest heavily in fair nominations Raila: Jubilee cash is suspect but we are not scared of them To kill boredom, the delegates were entertained by local musicians from various parts of the country and East Africa. Mombasa gospel songbird Anastasia Mukabwa kept the crowd on its feet with her popular hit Heshima. The delegates were electrified when she changed some lines of the song and took a swipe at critics of Jubilee. Timmy Dat of the Welle Welle fame, gospel artists Victor Mbuvi and Size 8 also wowed the crowd, especially those who were in the middle of the field, unprotected from the scorching sun. However, it was Philip Yegon who carried the day when he took to the stage and performed his new song, &lsquo;Jubilee&rsquo;. The song captured the mood of the day and got leaders, majority from the Rift Valley, shaking a leg. National Assembly Deputy Speaker Joyce Laboso, Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, former Agriculture CS Felix Koskey and former MP Joshua Kuttuny rose to their feet and started dancing. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;