There is tension among beneficiaries of the National Youth Service (NYS) projects after 4,000 people were allegedly axed. Some of the beneficiaries yesterday claimed they had reliable information from the Ministry of Devolution that of the 5,000 beneficiaries who have been working on the project, only 1,000 will be re-admitted. Yesterday, about 1,000 people from Manyatta were re-admitted following fresh registration at Kosawo Hall. The remaining 4,000 from Obunga and Nyalenda were left out in what the youths claimed was &ldquo;a directive from above&rdquo;. They have threatened to stage a demonstration to demand reasons for their exclusion. The NYS project beneficiaries, who have been on a two-month break, also want their sacco contributions remitted to their bank accounts to enable them to engage in other meaningful projects. READ MORE 68 applicants for EACC top job disqualified Top detective rules out NYS hacking claim in loss of Sh791m Kenya MPs question suspicious cash transfers at NYS A supervisor in Nyalenda yesterday hinted to The Standard that none of them had been briefed on the ongoing project. Six weeks &ldquo;We were told that we would have a two-week break. But it is now close to six weeks since the works were halted yet no information is coming to us about the reasons for the delay,&rdquo; said the supervisor who sought anonymity. &ldquo;Some of our members have been calling us to ask about the future of the project and we have no answers to give them. We were surprised to learn that the Manyatta team resumed work today (yesterday) and when we inquired from the head office, we were simply told &lsquo;mambo imeharibika&rsquo; (things are not good).&rdquo; The work of NYS project beneficiaries in the first phase included cleaning the estate, clearing drains, and repairing and upgrading roads. The next phase was expected to see the construction of 23 ablution blocks, 23 clinics, 23 police posts, 23 posho mills, 23 poultry units, 13 fish ponds and 23 models, which would be left for the youths to manage as their source of income through saccos. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;