Deputy President William Ruto yesterday accused some leaders from Rift Valley of what he termed &lsquo;political sabotage&rsquo;. Speaking at Kabarnet Boys High School, Ruto told residents he had poached several elected leaders from Western, Kisii and Coast to join Jubilee Party but some people are undoing what he had done. &ldquo;I have directed all my energies and efforts to have more people join our team while others are busy stirring our political nest and chasing them away,&rsquo;&rsquo; he said. The DP said having been a protege of former President Daniel Moi, he learnt that bringing Kenyans together was the only way to a peaceful and prosperous nation. &ldquo;Retired President Moi came from this county and always taught upcoming leaders and Kenyans to have political outfits that unite the country. This is what I learnt from his political tutorials,&rsquo;&rsquo; said Ruto. So far in Western, the DP said 15 elected MPs, a governor had already abandoned their initial political affiliations to join Jubilee Party. READ MORE Rift Valley Railways opens up rail to private transport firms Kenya to make Sh3b loss from early crude oil exports, warns report DP Ruto presidency deal in 2022 a pipedream, says Nick Salat Others in the confirmed poaching list are nine MPs from Kisii previously of Ford Kenya, he said. &ldquo;People from Coast led by Kwale governor are already in Jubilee house. This country has come from far and mistakes which have been committed are well noted, we are not going to repeat such again,&rsquo;&rsquo; he assured the locals. He at the same time reaffirmed his earlier decision on where Baringo University was to be established. He attacked his political critic and Bomet governor Isaac Ruto for staging a similar fight to block another public university. &ldquo;Plans by Isaac to block Bomet University through judicial process were defeated. Take it from me, those with similar thinking in Baringo will definitely hit the hard wall,&rsquo;&rsquo; he said. Recently, Baringo Senator Gideon Moi opposed the move to convert the institute into a university, sentiments which were shared by a section of Baringo Central and South locals. Meanwhile, Deputy President William Ruto has unveiled a multi-billion shilling water project in Baringo County. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;