The search for a new chairman for the anti-corruption agency has hit a snag after all 68 applicants failed to meet the minimum requirements. Kenya Public Service Commission chairperson Margaret Kobia said yesterday the position had been re-advertised because the majority of applicants lacked the necessary experience to fight corruption. &ldquo;The position was advertised in the media on September 7 and closed on September 28, 2016,&rdquo; said Prof Kobia. &ldquo;By the close of the advertisement, 68 applications were received. On scrutiny and shortlisting, the commission could not find adequate qualified applicants to proceed to the next stage of the interviews.&rdquo; Prof. Margaret Kobia, chairperson of public service commission of Kenya, and Peter Nkuraiyia vice chairperson public service commission address members of the press. The search for a new chairman for the anti-corruption agency has hit a snag after all 68 applicants failed to meet the minimum requirements.&nbsp;(PHOTO: EDWARD KIPLIMO/ STANDARD) The position of Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission chairman fell vacant after Philip Kinisu resigned following pressure from Parliament and the public, when it emerged that a company associated with his family did business with the National Youth Service at a time when millions of shillings were lost at the institution. Kobia said the applicants did not meet the minimum requirements as provided for in the Constitution. READ MORE Two Nyeri County officials arrested over Sh4m fraud allegations Former MP, spouse risk 18 years in jail over misuse of public funds Activist Boniface Mwangi dares DP to sue him for defamation &ldquo;The position of chairman requires that one must have a degree, knowledge and experience of not less than 15 years, and meet the requirements of Chapter Six of the Constitution,&rdquo; she added. It was said the applicants did not meet the integrity and experience threshold. Family firm Applicants are also expected to possess knowledge and experience of no less than 15 years in any of the following fields - ethics, law, public administration, leadership, economics, social studies, accounting, fraud investigation, public relations and media, religious studies, philosophy or audit. &ldquo;Arising from the above, it has been found necessary that the position be re-advertised with the same requirements as per the Act. Those who applied earlier need not re-apply,&rdquo; she said. The position of anti-corruption chairman has always been a thorny issue because of the manner in which the previous office holders have been hounded out. This may be another factor explaining why the position did not attract many applicants. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;