A major crisis is looming in the counties following failure by Treasury to release Sh66 billion to governors. The money is part of a Sh300 billion allocation to the counties this year to finance development and recurrent expenditure. Annual allocation to the counties is disbursed in three phases. Development projects in the counties have stalled and workers have not been paid salaries following Senate&rsquo;s failure to pass a motion to disburse the money. There isn&rsquo;t a single cent that has been disbursed this financial year, 2016/17, more than two months since the budget was read and approved by the National Assembly. Of the Sh300 billion, which includes Sh280.3 billion equitable share and Sh18 billion conditional allocation, the counties are expected to receive Sh66 billion for the first quarter, which falls in June, July and August. SEVEN DAYS READ MORE KCB to close early on Friday for weekend upgrade State to invest in Sh2b modern railway engineering school Youth Fund to process loans in 48 hours as it rolls out turnaround plan Even if the motion to disburse funds is passed, the earliest Treasury can release funds is seven days after the passage, implying that there is no possibility that counties will receive funds before mid this month. Further, the counties receive less or more depending on how much Treasury has collected, making it uncertain just how much of the expected Sh66 billion the Treasury will release. And the Commission on Revenue Allocation (CRA) wants Treasury to release the money to the counties to avoid further delay. &ldquo;Development activities are not taking place and the situation is not very good. We propose that Treasury seeks ways to resolve this matter as both the Senate and Treasury await for the passage of the motion on the disbursement schedule on allocation of funds to the counties,&rdquo; said CRA Chairman Micah Cheserem. He said Treasury is expected to release part of the Sh300 billion, which is disbursed quarterly. &ldquo;Treasury should look for funds, at least the amount for the 1st quarter (Sh66 billion), to advance to counties as it will cost the governors a lot more waiting for disbursement,&rdquo; he said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;