The promise of devolution was one of the baits that easily gave us the 2010 Constitution. By promising every county unconditional grants every year, we all thought economic growth at grassroots was assured. We saw Nairobi coming to the counties with all its amenities. We did not think much about the negatives, such as slums, pollution and depersonalisation. The 2010 Constitution came into force when its counterweight &ndash; globalisation &ndash; was reaching its apogee. So why would we welcome devolution, which has localisation as its epicentre, when globalisation was doing so well? Whiff of self-determination To be fair to the counties, they had felt marginalised since uhuru, with DCs, DOs, DEOs and other administrators coming from outside their counties. So any whiff of self-determination was embraced with open arms. Overnight, everything in Kenya became local. The surprise was medical services. Doctors might have been too busy in surgical wards to read the draft constitution and see its implications on their careers. Teachers saw it, and ensured their employer was anchored in the Constitution. READ MORE Police shoot dead four suspects along Likoni Road, Nairobi Beware of cons, city real estate investors warned Safaricom takes Blaze mentorship to Nairobi Now the counties have their own services to provide, as stipulated in the Constitution. This has created new centres that make decisions without reference to Nairobi. That sort of independence, and the money, has made many senators realise its better to be a governor. The framers of the Constitution gave governors quite some power, which most people did not notice then. The thinking might have been to counterbalance the national Government, or check it. The Constitution dispersed power &ndash; did this sow the seed of impunity? There were some interesting omissions. Nairobi being the centre of the national government should not have had a county government. Enough digression. Which will win, devolution or globalisation? The first task of the new county government officials was to travel abroad &ndash; we are told to benchmark. That was another pent-up desire. Few Kenyans have been majuu, and we look for every opportunity to do so because it is still considered prestigious. Such trips would have been eye openers, only that the benchmarking tours were too short and unfocused. How many MCAs sat in parliaments of their host countries? How many brought home copies of the host countries&rsquo; constitutions? How many had a working lunch with their counterparts? How many visited the rural areas in the host countries? GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;