President Uhuru Kenyatta and Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho met yesterday for the first time after months of frosty relations. The two met at two functions at Mackinnon and Kongowea markets and shook hands amid applause from huge enthusiastic crowds that cheered the two leaders&#39; speeches. It was the first time the two leaders were coming together since late January during Uhuru&#39;s month-long stay at the Coast. Joho had accused the Jubilee administration of undermining and sabotaging him during presidential visits. Shortly after Uhuru&#39;s tour in January, the Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) and Kenya Ports Authority ordered the closure of two major container depots in Mombasa associated with Joho&#39;s family in what the Opposition dubbed &#39;politics of revenge&#39;. In March, Joho accused the Jubilee government of intimidation and blackmail after the State withdrew his security and gun. Yesterday&#39;s reception of the President and exchange of greetings was pleasant and warm, a marked departure from the governor&#39;s reaction in January. READ MORE Leaders ask Gideon to vie for presidency IEBC truce could be short-lived Kenyans want President Uhuru to consult Raila in picking new IEBC team The President later opened the centuries-old Mackinon market in Mvita constituency whose rehabilitation was undertaken by the National Youth Service. Uhuru said he will tomorrow commission the second container terminal at the Port of Mombasa, and told residents that plans to establish a special economic zone and build a bypass to the South Coast were on course. &quot;Plans to establish an economic zone that will provide employment to many of our youth is on course,&quot; President Kenyatta said. The President is also expected to open the Mombasa International Agricultural show at Mkomani showground today. Receiving the President to open the markets was Nyali MP Hezron Awiti, Khatib Mwashetani (Lunga Lunga), Zainab Chidzuga (Kwale), Peter Shehe (Ganze), Harrison Kombe (Magarini) and Gonzi Rai of Kinango. Others were Cabinet secretaries Najib Balala, Jacob Kaimenyi, Joseph Nkaissery and Cecily Kariuki. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;