Legendary politician William Ronkorua ole Ntimama, who was buried yesterday, was one of the longest serving politicians in the country. He will be remembered for serving for 15 years as the powerful chairman of the defunct Narok County Council and for 25 years as an MP. He served as minister under&nbsp; presidents Daniel Moi and Mwai Kibaki. The veteran politician bestrode the Kenyan political landscape like the proverbial colossus, from the days of founding president Mzee Jomo Kenyatta to the present day, championing the rights of the Maasai. His political career started in 1974 when he was elected chairman of the Narok County Council Prior to the adoption of multiparty politics in 1990s, the late Ntimama was a staunch supporter of the then ruling party Kanu. During the Kanu era, he was vocal against multiparty politics. VOCAL LEADER READ MORE President Uhuru, Opposition leader Raila political rivalry plays out during Ntimama's burial Ntimama given befitting sendoff Man claiming to be late Ntimama's son blocked from taking part in burial However, after the advent of multiparty politics in the 90s, he decamped from Kanu and joined the Democratic Party (DP), then headed by retired President Mwai Kibaki. He later joined the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) during the 2007 elections, and was elected to represent the Narok North Constituency between 2007 and 2013 when he lost to Moitalel Kenta of the defunct National Alliance (TNA) party. He served the people of Narok North as an MP for 25 years before he retired from active politics on September 14, 2013. The vocal Maasai leader who died of natural causes in his house in Narok County two weeks ago, had announced his intention to support President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s re-election in 2017. During his long political career, Ntimama distinguished himself as a great agitator and defender of Maasai rights. As a result, he gained unrivaled popularity in the community to become one of the most influential Masaai leaders. But to other communities, the late Ntimama was a thorn in the flesh. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;