ODM leader Raila Odinga launched a blistering attack on Jubilee, describing the ruling coalition as a threat to democracy and the rule of law. He addressed thousands of party supporters at Mombasa&rsquo;s Mama Ngina Drive Gardens where he declared that his party was ready for elections and is capable of defeating the incumbent administration. The ODM described Jubilee as a dishonest regime that had looted public money and frustrated efforts to transfer authority to counties. About 15 governors and dozens of MPs from ODM attended yesterday&rsquo;s function that marked 10 years of ODM&rsquo;s founding. ODM deputy party leaders Hassan Ali Joho and Wycliffe Oparanya said Raila should be the opposition flagbearer in next year&rsquo;s election. &ldquo;Our flag bearer in next year&rsquo;s election is Raila Amolo Odinga,&rdquo; said Joho who told the former prime minister &ldquo;we are ready to campaign for you.&rdquo; Mr Oparanya accused Jubilee of turning its four year rule into &ldquo;an auction of leaders&rdquo; and said Raila ought to be Kenya&rsquo;s president because he stood for democracy and respected the rule of law. READ MORE 40 defectors get rousing welcome into Jubilee party Parties must invest heavily in fair nominations ODM ticket hopefuls up in arms over list of preferred candidates &ldquo;We request you to allow Raila Amolo Odinga to be president. We in Kakamega have resolved that he should be our flagbearer,&rdquo; he said. The governor said Jubilee should not treat the disbursement of state resources to counties as a favour to be dished out to favorite politicians and friends. Kilifi governor Amason Kingi claimed that Jubilee had encouraged land grabs. Mr Kingi claimed that Deputy President has repeatedly asked Coast residents to forget historical injustices so that past crimes like land grabbing remain unpunished. He said Coast residents cannot forget the past because it is past policies that are responsible their misery. Raila&rsquo;s speech was interrupted for 20 minutes due to a power outage and when he resumed he launched attacks on Jubilee and dismissing yesterday&rsquo;s merger of pro-government political parties as &ldquo;the same monkeys jumping from one forest to another.&rdquo; He claimed that Jubilee had hijacked projects launched under the 2008-2013 Grand Coalition government, then altered them to extract bribes from them. Raila also said Jubilee has not fulfilled its pledges and has also failed to combat graft adding that to date the ruling coalition has not accounted for the billions raised under the Eurobond. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;