NAIROBI: Big losers in political party primaries could still find their way into Parliament through nominations. It has emerged that the elections law was amended to remove a requirement that restricted politicians contesting in party nominations from having their names included in the party list. The new law banned party hopping, but MPs pushed to open up the party list to losers of primaries. Party hopping was just one of the wide range of electoral reforms including a fine of Sh1 million or six-year jail term for employers who do not give employees reasonable time to participate in elections. According to the law, politicians who use public officers to force any person to back a candidate or a political party will be fined Sh10 million or serve a six-year jail term. To help more women in power, 15 per cent of parties fund will be distributed among parties based on number of elected special interest candidates. It also states that party membership lists will be submitted 90 days to elections and only members of a party can vote for candidates in a primary. The number of voters per polling station is limited to 500. Under the previous law, parties submitted the party list to the electoral commission before they nominated candidates to contest for positions in the National Assembly, Senate and County Assembly. But political parties will not be required to submit their party lists-names of those to be nominated should a party secure slots-at least 45 days to the General Election. READ MORE Kenyan politicians in race to control funds Gusii leaders remain divided after Jubilee Party launch How CORD defectors could force repeat of 1966 mass by-elections Given another change altered the period for parties to conduct primaries from at least 45 days to at least 60 days before a General Election, it opens a window for nomination losers to be included in the party list. A senior leader of one coalition acknowledged that the need to &quot;reward&quot; big losers influenced the amendment essentially intended to offer a soft landing.&nbsp; &quot;If two serious candidates compete for party nominations and one loses by a small margin, there should be a way to reward them,&quot; he said. Offering another route to Parliament for such losers is even more critical now especially after the ruling coalition narrowed the options for politicians with the merger of 13 parties into Jubilee Party. That means the party primaries will be more hotly contested because those who miss the ticket of the party where it is most popular effectively will be out in the cold for five years.&nbsp; The chance for nomination to Parliament - although the slots are based on the party&#39;s performance in elections - would be a welcome relief for some. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;