ODM leader Raila Odinga stepped up his party&#39;s preparations for next year&#39;s elections by naming a team to conduct its nominations. The party inaugurated the five-member National Elections Board that will oversee primaries planned for February for those seeking the party&#39;s ticket to run for MCA, MP, senator and governor. Judith Pareno retained her position as the chairperson. Other commissioners are Robert Arunga (secretary general) and members Edward Nyale, Norah Anindo and Ibrahim Rashid. The party reconstituted the elections board following disbandment of the other nine-member team in April based on recommendations by the Jotham Nyukuri-led task force. Yesterday, Ms Pareno said the new board was ready to work, and warned party rank and file that they should expect change. &quot;It will not be business as usual. We are soon releasing our nomination rules to guide the next General Election and four ward by-elections in four counties slated for next month,&quot; she said. READ MORE Judges want time to hear petitions extended as from 2017 election Kibaki still in hospital as leaders join in prayer It&rsquo;s never again to poll chaos in Kenya Pareno said the board would vet candidates for the four ward by-elections on Monday and carry out nominations on September 10. The by-elections in Mosiro (Kajiado), Sala (Tana River), Nyacheki (Kisii) and Kalokol (Turkana) will be held on Wednesday, according to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC). Raila will tomorrow head to Turkana County and thereafter to Kisii and Trans Nzoia counties to consolidate his support even as the 2017 polls beckon. IEBC has directed that political parties must finalise their nominations and determine any intra-party disputes arising from party nominations by September 11. ODM chairman John Mbadi said the party was committed to promoting peaceful elections. &quot;Any candidate who incites his or her followers to cause chaos or interfere with NEB will be barred from contesting and face other disciplinary measures,&quot; the Suba MP said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;