A Siaya county MCA who stripped naked a year ago to show his displeasure over a tweet supposedly posted by Deputy President William Ruto, will have to issue a public apology regarding his unethical conduct. This is after the Director of Public Prosecution upheld the recommendation by the Ethics and Anti- Corruption Commission (EACC), which conducted investigations into the unbecoming conduct of the Central Gem MCA Fred Ouda. Mr Ouda in late June last year, caused a stir when he stripped naked as he addressed journalists at the county assembly, while protesting over the tweet that according to him demeaned residents of Kibera. It would later emerge that the tweet which claimed that the slum residents &#39;should be left to go back to their flying toilets&#39;, originated from a parody account, and not the official twitter handle of the Deputy President. According to the latest EACC report, members of the Siaya county Assembly Committee of Privileges deliberated on the MCA&#39;s conduct and meted out the relevant sanctions as per the law. According to the latest EACC report covering the period from April 1st to June 30, 2016, the Ward representative violated the Constitution 2010 and the Leadership and Integrity Act&nbsp;2012, by stripping naked. READ MORE Kidero wife&rsquo;s battles to have EACC stopped from probe DP Ruto: &lsquo;I am not a land grabber&rsquo; Peoples power in fight against corruption &quot; A report was compiled and forwarded to the DPP on April 4, 2016 recommending that EACC issues a warning letter to the MCA against further violation of the constitution and the Leadership and Integrity Act, and that the MCA tenders a public apology,&quot; reads the report in part. The DPP&nbsp;Mr Keriako Tobiko, on July 11, 2016, accepted the two recommendations by the&nbsp;ethics body. Speaking to the Standard, National Assembly majority leader Aden Duale confirmed that the report is one of the documents he tabled in parliament, during a special sitting early this month. EACC according to the&nbsp;Anti- Corruption and Economics Act, 2003 is required to prepare quarterly reports for the DPP.&nbsp; A copy&nbsp;of the report is&nbsp;supposed to be availed to the Attorney General, who in turn is expected to lay it before the National Assembly.