Three senior Nyeri County officials jailed for corruption spent their second night in prison after their families failed to raise a Sh20 million fine. Former executives John Maina (Lands) and Martin Wamwea (Finance), and Chief of Staff Simon Wachira were jailed on Monday after they were found guilty of irregular tendering worth Sh10 million that led to the loss of Sh3.75 million. Their lawyers yesterday made frantic efforts to secure their freedom to no avail. Lawyer Edward Oonge filed an urgent application at the Nyeri Law Courts seeking to have the three released on bond pending an appeal. The three, currently at King&#39;ong&#39;o Prison, are required to pay Sh24 million failure to which they will spend three years each in jail. They asked for non-custodial sentences after being found guilty. Maina said he has a young family that depends on him while Wachira said he is sick, but the magistrate would hear none of it. The former officials were allowed some time with their families before they were instructed to surrender personal properties, including cellphones, and ushered into the cells. READ MORE More Rift Valley women set sights on elective posts for 2017 polls Kenyan politicians in race to control funds Court orders Governors to re-hire and compensate sacked County Executives The decision by Chief Magistrate John Onyiego to jail the three after a two-year trial now paves the way for Governor Nderitu Gachagua to appoint substantive office holders. Nearly half of the slots in the county government are unoccupied and current office bearers are serving in acting capacities. Keeping top county government officials, including ministers, in acting capacities was one of the grounds MCAs impeached the governor before the Senate reinstated him. Senior county officials The Standard talked to could not divulge when Gachagua, who is reportedly out of the country for medical check-up, would fill the vacant positions. A source in Gachagua&#39;s office said the officials, including County Secretary Alice Wachira, are waiting for the governor to give direction. Some leaders said the ruling, seen as the harshest ever, is a step in the right direction in the war against corruption. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;