A Nyeri court has raised the bar in the war against corruption by prescribing what could be the harshest penalty on the crime yet. Yesterday, the Anti-Corruption Court ordered three former Nyeri county government officials to pay Sh24 million for irregular awarding of a tender worth Sh10 million, leading to the loss of Sh3.75 million. The three, who were found guilty of the loss of Sh3,756,962 because of their failure to comply with procurement laws and funds management procedures, were each ordered to repay double the amount double the amount the county lost. John Maina who served as Lands and Infrastructure executive, former Finance and Economic Planning executive Martin Wamwea and former Chief of Staff Simon Wachira were each ordered to refund Sh7.5 million or serve two years in prison. TENDER UNPROCEDURAL They were further fined Sh400,000&nbsp;each or in default be jailed for one year. The sentences will run concurrently. READ MORE Quit now or risk being killed, brother warns President Zuma Nairobi's water puzzle needs answers now DP Ruto: &lsquo;I am not a land grabber&rsquo; Chief Magistrate John Onyiego found the three guilty of flouting procurement laws and using their positions to improperly confer Pleng Limited a Sh3.75 million benefit to offer consultancy audit services for roads and civil works. The court ruled that the award of the tender was unprocedural. The prosecution, led by Wesley Nyamache charged the trio with six counts of corruption and abuse of office. Maina was accused of irregularly awarding a consultancy audit service for roads and civil works without the approval of county tender committee and conferring the said contract to Pleng (K) Ltd in total disregard of the tender committee on August 12, 2014. His co-accused, Wamwea, was charged with improperly authorising payment of Sh3.7 million to the said company and failing to obtain requisite supporting documents before authorising the payment of the funds on December 20, 2014. Wachira faced two counts of improperly approving payment of the said irregular tender to Pleng and failing to obtain requisite supporting documents before approving the payment on December 16, 2014. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;