Before the dramatic storming of Moi University by some North Rift politicians on Tuesday, tension had been simmering at the institution over a myriad of issues. Discontent among staff, protests by students, allegations of financial mismanagement and intrigues surrounding the retirement of the long-serving Vice Chancellor Richard Mibey have dogged the university for most of the year. Prof Mibey served a maximum 10 years from 2006 after taking over from Prof David Some, the current Chief Executive Officer of the Commission for University Education (CUE). Members of the University Academic Staff Union (UASU) say the row over appointment of an acting vice chancellor could just be a tip of the iceberg. Seven senior managers are currently on suspension after they were accused of misappropriating funds and irregularly hiring staff. The university council was scheduled to decide the fate of some of the suspended managers two weeks ago, but the meeting did not take place. In May, the university announced that Mibey was proceeding on leave, pending the end of his tenure in September and College of Health Sciences Principal Fabian Esamai was appointed to take charge on an acting capacity. READ MORE Apologise or face the law, CS Nkaissery tells leaders in VC row Merchants of tribal hate have grown more arrogant CS Nkaissery wants Governors Tolgos and Mandago to apologise now Returned to helm But in a dramatic turn of events, the council announced Mibey had returned to the helm of the institution only three weeks after he had proceeded on terminal leave. The communication in a one-paragraph letter did not explain the reasons for the about-turn. Mibey&rsquo;s sudden return in June triggered demonstrations by members of UASU and coincided with a go-slow by lecturers who were pressing the management to address their grievances. UASU has been accusing the management of illegally withholding monthly pension deductions and arrears amounting to over Sh290 million. The union has also been questioning the use of funds raised through the privately-sponsored students programme and wants the funds to be used to run the university and settle all pending payments. UASU Moi University Chapter Secretary Jack Abok&nbsp; said most of the union&rsquo;s members have been blacklisted by financial institutions as loan defaulters, while others have been blacklisted by the Credit Reference Bureau (CRB) because the deductions made on their payslips by the university are not dispatched to the creditors and insurance policy providers. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;