&nbsp; Taxpayers could end up forking out millions of shillings to pay nine commissioners of the electoral body after a deal for their exit was reached. IEBC Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) Chairman Isaack Hassan (right) flanked by The Chief of Staff and Head of Public Service Mr. Joseph Kinyua on his left and Cabinet Secretary of Ministry of National Treasury Henry Rotich (left) and IEBC commissioners addresses the press on conclusion of the IEBC Commisioners negotiations at Harambee house on 30th september 2016 PHOTO DAVID GICHURU The commissioners will know on Monday their individual exit package, once the process to determine the same is concluded over the weekend. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) bosses yesterday reached a deal with the government, after a meeting that lasted more than five hours, paving the way for the Treasury to release their hefty send-off packages. The golden handshake for the commissioners that was part of proposals by the Joint Parliamentary Select Committee on IEBC, include forfeited salaries and allowances, and gratuity for the years they served. Joseph Kinyua, the Head of Public Service who led the government team that handled the commissioners&rsquo; exit, said the negotiations were held strictly under the law and parliamentary recommendations. READ MORE No agreement yet on IEBC bosses' send-off package Government to start talks on polls team exit perks today Nairobi Senator slams party nominations law &ldquo;The negotiations have been guided by the need to strike a balance between public interest, legal and constitutional demands, the contract of appointment to office of each commissioner and the guideline of the Salaries and Remuneration Commission,&rdquo; Mr Kinyua said at a press briefing after the meeting. &ldquo;The process was not geared towards any party emerging as the winner but rather as an objective endeavor towards securing a dignified vacation from office in line with the unanimous resolution of Parliament,&rdquo; he added. Recruitment Other members of the team were Cabinet Secretaries Henry Rotich (National Treasury), Cecily Kariuki (Public Service) and Principal Secretaries Kamau Thugge (National Treasury) and Karanja Kibicho (Interior). Solicitor General Njee Muturi and the Salaries and Remuneration Commission Chief Executive Officer Anne Gitau were also part of the government team which concluded negotiations with the IEBC team led by Chairman Issack Hassan. &ldquo;The negotiations were done in good faith, and we are in agreement with the final position adopted today,&rdquo; Mr Hassan said. He thanked Kenyans for giving them a chance to serve. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;