Antananarivo: A number of Countries have supported the candidature of Kenya&rsquo;s Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohammed to the position of the chairperson of the African Union Commission. &nbsp;The member states of the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA) threw their weight behind Ambassador Amina in Antananarivo, Madagascar Monday. Speaking at a dinner hosted by Deputy President William Ruto for Ministers of Foreign Affairs from COMESA, Malawi, Madagascar, Ethiopia and Rwanda expressed their support for Ambassador Amina. They said she was best placed to steer the continent&rsquo;s economic blue print, agenda 2063 and other reforms in the continental body and internationally. Ethiopia&rsquo;s Minister for Finance and Economic Cooperation Ahmed Shide noted that Ambassador Amina has had a long and distinguished career in Kenya&rsquo;s Foreign Affairs Ministry that has enabled her build experience and in-depth understanding of not only African issues but also international affairs. The Minister Said: &ldquo;Am confident that she can serve our region well especially in peace building and continental integration. She is able, forthright and articulate and has our support.&rdquo; READ MORE President Uhuru lobbies leaders to back Kenya's bid for top AU position African leaders receptive to Kenya&rsquo;s candidature for AU Commission top post Kenya now wants SADC to drop bid for AU chair &nbsp;Malawi&rsquo;s Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation Francis Lazalo Kasaila said Malawi was confident Ambassador Amina can champion reforms in the continental body. &ldquo;I have interacted with Ambassador Amina on several occasions and I know that she is capable of bringing positive change to our region and the African Union,&quot; he said. Rwanda&rsquo;s Francis Kanimba said her diplomatic acumen was evident when she successfully presided over several international meetings in Nairobi such as the World Trade Organization (WTO), the United Nations Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and the Tokyo International Conference on Africa&rsquo;s Development (TICAD). &ldquo;We in Rwanda made our support for Ambassador Amina immediately it was announced, and as an East African Community (EAC) member we feel very proud of her candidature,&rdquo; he said. Similar sentiments were expressed by Madagascar&rsquo;s Minister for Industry and Private sector Development Chabani Nourdine who said his country had no reason not to support Kenya&#39;s foreign minister. Mr Ruto thanked the Ministers for their support of Kenya&rsquo;s Foreign Minister and said Ms Amina had proved to be an invaluable asset to the Government of Kenya. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;