A Kenyan-born politician who made history by being elected a councillor in the UK has set his sights on the presidency in next year&#39;s polls. Daniel Munyambu, who was once elected a representative in a white-dominated area of Basildon, has thrown his hat in the ring for the presidency in the 2017 General Election. He says President Uhuru Kenyatta has done little since he took power in 2013. Incidentally, Munyambu hails from President Kenyatta&#39;s Gatundu South backyard. Announcing his intention, the politician said the country had suffered a lot as a result of poor leadership. Last year, Munyambu unsuccessfully contested for a parliamentary seat in Britain. In a statement announcing his candidature, the aspirant said his decision to vie was inspired by &quot;a desire to bring real change in the country.&quot; The politician said if elected President, he will fix what he termed &quot;socio-economic mess&quot; that has been created by the four consecutive regimes since independence. To ensure he wins the hearts of Kenyans, he has enumerated radical proposals, which, he says, will help in making the country a success story as per the wishes of founding fathers. READ MORE Girl defiled in Mukuru slum nursing injuries The inconsistencies in opinion polling ODM launches anniversary celebrations &quot;I believe my in-depth 10 years experience in British governance will be of help to Kenya. I will achieve my goal by first suffocating the current corrupt system that has existed for more than five decades and replace it with an honest, transparent government with equal representation from the country&#39;s 42 tribes,&quot; said Mr Munyambu. The presidential aspirant turned the heat on lawmakers, saying they have institutionalised corruption by passing laws that are lenient to those who pocket billions of tax payers&#39; money. &quot;The Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act, 2003, for example, states that an accused person if found guilty will be fined not more than Sh1 million. I find that inadequate. My leadership will repeal it and propose harsher penalties for those who engage in corruption,&quot; he said. He said by reducing corruption significantly, millions of jobs will be created as funds will be available to invest in every county for development projects. &quot;Fighting corruption will be a collective responsibility of all Kenyans. Whistle-blowers will be protected and rewarded handsomely. I will request Britain and the US among other countries to freeze the Sh650 billion looted from Kenya and transfer it back to the country so that it can help in economic development,&quot; he said. Munyambu said he will turn Kenya into an economic hub by promoting healthy financial climate for investors. On infrastructure, Munyambu said inter-city railways and trams will reduce congestion. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;