The bloodless digital war between the government of Kenya and four TV stations; KTN, Citizen, NTV and QTV ended after a Court ruling that affirmed the position of the government &ndash; that all TV stations had to migrate from analogue to digital broadcast by 2015. This came along with many financial aftershocks. &nbsp;&nbsp; Digital migration is the process in which broadcasting services offered on analogue technology are converted and replaced with digital based networks. The four TV stations resumed broadcast after a three-week long protest in which they turned off their analogue signals. Against the will of key players in the broadcast industry, the government insisted on ensuring that all broadcast channels complied with set migration procedures &ndash; arguing that the benefits that come along with digital migration include better picture quality, more channels, efficient use of the frequency spectrum, lower transmission costs and optimal utilization of the transmission infrastructure. The four private stations had asked for more time for the migration, scheduled for February 2015, but the government stood its ground claiming that there was no time left. &nbsp;&nbsp; Kenya is a signatory to International Telecommunication Union (ITU), a United Nations specialised agency for information and communication technologies and Regional Radio- Communications Conference (2006) and Geneva (2006) Agreement of the ITU recommendations that requires all member states to shift from analogue to digital broadcasting system by 2015. &nbsp; The principle of International Law pacta sunt servanda that placed Kenya under intense switchover pressure also advised that the migration process must be done in good faith, and all stakeholders needed to agree on terms and conditions. Even as the media owners prepared to honour the International obligation, there were a number of pending issues that needed clarification and reasoning. Communication Authority which was mandated to facilitate the digital switchover recommended that the public broadcaster, Kenya Broadcasting Corporation (KBC) be granted a conditional signal distribution license under its subsidiary SIGNET. Other Broadcast Signal Distribution (&ldquo;BSD&rdquo;) licenses were to be given to private investors through a competitive procurement process. Through what Kenyan media houses referred to as biased procurement process, CA gave second BSD license to PANG, a Chinese owned company, and National Signals Network which was composed of three local media houses (Royal Media Services, Nation Media Group and Standard Group) &ndash; that later decided to petition Public Procurement Administrative Review Tribunal to settle the procurement process but the case was dismissed. Crucial missteps on judgment&nbsp; The case would proceed to High Court whose decision was contested to the Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court where a final decision was reached. The legal issues that arose from this matter included protection of intellectual property rights, freedom of the media to broadcast and the role of the government in regulation of information technology, but one year down the line, it has turned out that a lot of consumer based issues were never seriously analysed. Even though Supreme Court held that the &ldquo;must-carry&rdquo; rule which in essence demands BSD Broadcasters to carry the signals, the companies with BSD licenses and the government did not define in context the very factors that necessitated digital migration. In illustration, if digital migration were to come with high quality of TV and Radio signals, it&rsquo;s not clear what constitutes &ldquo;high quality signals,&rdquo; and how consumers should react in the event that BSD licensed companies would relay low quality signals to their TV sets. To date, millions of Kenyans are not aware of what forms &ldquo;quality signal&rdquo; since it&rsquo;s not defined in law nor in any of the Kenyan broadcast policies. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;