Even before the dust settles on the mega launch of Jubilee Party, cracks have begun to emerge as leaders position themselves ahead of next year&rsquo;s polls. In a glimpse of what is to come, political allies in some parts of Mt Kenya differed in public as each tried to prove their closeness to party leaders. Others have opened parallel offices, with each claiming legitimacy. On Sunday, allies Lenny Kivuti, the Embu senator, and Runyenjes MP Cecily Mbarire clashed in public in a supremacy battle never witnessed before. Their supporters nearly exchanged blows while their two leaders wrestled for control of the microphone. The supporters waved placards and chanted political slogans as the leaders traded insults on the podium. And in Murang&rsquo;a, Kandara MP Alice Wahome and a group of four aspirants seeking to unseat her in the next polls opened two parallel party offices. The two offices were opened just a few metres from each other. In the neighbouring Kirinyaga County, Governor Joseph Ndathi hosted his Laikipia counterpart Joshua Irungu and Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, who declared that the party would have nothing short of fair nominations. READ MORE Raila back to Coast after wave of defections Jubilee Party will unite the country Heightened political rhetoric bad for Kenya Amid rumours that former Devolution Cabinet Secretary Anne Waiguru was the preferred &ldquo;Government&rdquo; candidate for the governor&rsquo;s seat, the leaders said residents should be left to elect leaders of their choice. Exchanging blows In the Embu incident, Ms Mbarire and Mr Kivuti, who are both eyeing the governor&rsquo;s seat, came close to exchanging blows at a fundraiser in Karurumo. Each leader claimed to have the backing of the party leadership and of commanding majority support on the ground. The funds drive convened in aid of local musicians was meant to help build a studio where they could record their music. Police had a rough time separating the two leaders and calming down their supporters as tempers flared. The fundraiser was called off before the two leaders made their contributions as the meeting threatened to become chaotic. LAUNCH CAMPAIGNS Anxiety built up after rumours spread that Kivuti would launch his campaigns for the governorship at the meeting. Mbarire reacted angrily to the move, saying it was disrespectful of the senator to launch his bid for the governor&rsquo;s seat in her constituency when she had already announced plans to vie for the same position. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;