Lawmakers yesterday supported the appointment of Justice David Maraga as the country&#39;s new Chief Justice. However, they said Maraga must deal with corruption and respect the principle of separation of powers among the three arms of Government. Justice Maraga, 65, received the nod of the House following debate on a report of the Justice and Legal Affairs committee, which found he &quot;has the requisite qualifications and vast experience in the Judiciary which qualified him for appointment to the position of Chief Justice of the Republic of Kenya&quot;. But Maraga, whose swearing-in is set for today, will have to deal with high expectations from lawmakers who made it clear that he must chart a new path for the Judiciary in dealing with graft, judicial fights and ensuring access to justice. &quot;He has his work cut out. The former Chief Justice Willy Mutunga will be remembered for establishing courts in 34 counties. Maraga must complete the other 14,&quot; said Leader of Majority Aden Duale (Garissa Town). &quot;Mutunga will be remembered for leaving a disjointed court where judges were fighting. We expect Maraga to take charge and put the Supreme Court in order. READ MORE Speaker directs MPs to vet Justice Maraga for CJ post Mutunga is remembered for bringing disunity between the three arms of Government and allowing the Judiciary to bully Parliament and protect corrupt governors. We expect Maraga not to allow Parliament procedures and processes to be curtailed by the Judiciary,&quot; said Duale. &quot;Let Maraga do what he promised Kenyans, that he will dismantle the corruption cartels,&quot; said Minority Leader Francis Nyenze (Kitui West). Upon swearing in by President Uhuru Kenyatta, the new CJ&#39;s first task will be to swear in the selection panel for commissioners of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. His approval by the House was widely expected despite objections from petitioners who questioned his integrity citing past judgments and his previous work as an advocate of the High Court. In its report, the committee chaired by Samuel Chepkonga (Ainabkoi) found no merit in the petitions.