In two weeks&rsquo; time, a Brazilian woman who has been living in deplorable conditions will be reunited with her family - 44 years since she was separated from them. A frail Maria Antonia Barbosa Dos Santos made Kongoni in Likuyani constituency, Kakamega County, her home and has had to contend with poverty and sickness. But Maria and her husband, Charles Ahuta, are currently packing their bags in readiness for the journey to Brazil after the Brazilian embassy came to their rescue.&nbsp; Her plight was recently highlighted by The Standard and caught the attention of Brazilian embassy officials and well-wishers. The two said they were looking forward to a warm reception in Brazil. A jovial Maria said she can&rsquo;t wait to meet her siblings and ailing mother and jokingly told her husband she would take him to the shores and teach him how to swim once they land in Brazil. She has been trying to reach her siblings in Penedo for four months without success. READ MORE CS Amina rallies UPU members to support Kenya candidature Kenya nominates Amina for top African Union Commission job Former PS Thuita's political debut stirs Laikipia County All the memories she has are of the journey she made to Kenya at the age of 19 when she came to work for a German as a nanny. Armed with her passport that was recently renewed, Maria says they will also be attended to by Brazilian doctors who will treat them for various ailments before they set out. &ldquo;We are both sick and currently depend on drugs after testing HIV-positive. My husband developed a stroke from the shock of learning about our HIV status,&rdquo; said Maria. Besides that, the mother of one suffers from diabetes and a hernia, a condition that requires immediate treatment. Despite their conditions, their faces are lit up with smiles at the thought of their planned journey to Brazil this month. &ldquo;After you highlighted our story, an embassy official visited our home and promised to help us. His concern was to make sure that my passport was renewed along with helping me trace my family in Penedo,&rdquo; said Maria. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;