The upcoming presidential poll in neigbouring Somalia next month promises to be a tight and competitive affair as candidates jostle to unseat the current President Mohammud Hassan Sheikh from power So far, the Presidential race has attracted the interest of political heavy weights in the Somali politics including former President Sheikh Shariff Ahmed, former prime ministers Mohammed Abdullahi &ldquo;Farmaajo&rdquo; and Abdiweli Sheikh Ahmed among others. But one candidate who is generating increasing interest and buzz in the complex, clan-based politics of Somalia is the former long-time Somali envoy to Kenya Ambassador Ali Nur &ldquo;Americo&rdquo;, who served in Nairobi for eight years till April last year The 54-year old father of eight is increasingly striking a chord with many Somali nationals as a symbol of much-needed reconciliation and peace for a country that suffered civil strife for a quarter of a century since the collapse of the central government in 1991. Touched hearts This is largely because the Ambassador touched deeply the hearts of many Somali nationals inside the country and in the diaspora when recently, he publicly forgave a man who confessed to him that he had killed his 18-month old baby in 1992 when the Somali central government fell apart and the country descended into civil strife. READ MORE Former Somalia envoy to Kenya now seeking presidency In September 2014, Mr Ali Nur was having coffee in a small seaside caf&eacute; in Mogadishu together with a friend when a man came up and sought audience with him. &ldquo;When he told me that he was part of the gang that stormed my house 22 years earlier and brutally shot my baby, I felt strong anger rise up in me and I almost resorted to kill him because of the pain that the memory had evoked,&rdquo; he recalls his eyes welling up with emotion. &ldquo;I think it is only God who intervened and calmed me down. Then I told him that I had forgiven him. We then fell into each other&rsquo;s&rsquo; arms and begun crying,&rdquo; When the incident was reported widely by various local media as a symbol of reconciliation, many other similar cases emerged in various parts of the country with killers owning to their crimes and being pardoned by relatives of the deceased. &ldquo;I am not saying justice shouldn&rsquo;t be done. But people have something in their hearts, and they need to clear out through reconciliation,&rdquo; said the diplomat. Ambassador Nur asserts that the continued instability in Somalia is partly due to absence of a true grassroots reconciliation process for the war-torn country. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;