As the process of hiring the new Chief Justice proceeds, I have been reminded of this story: One day the trees went out to anoint a king for themselves. They said to the olive tree, &lsquo;Be our king.&rsquo; But the olive tree answered, &lsquo;Should I give up my oil, by which both gods and humans are honoured, to hold sway over the trees?&rsquo; Next, the trees said to the fig tree, &lsquo;Come and be our king.&rsquo; But the fig tree replied, &lsquo;Should I give up my fruit, so good and sweet, to hold sway over the trees?&rsquo; Then the trees said to the vine, &lsquo;Come and be our king.&rsquo; &nbsp;But the vine answered, &lsquo;Should I give up my wine, which cheers both gods and humans, to hold sway over the trees?&rsquo; Finally all the trees said to the thorn-bush, &lsquo;Come and be our king.&rsquo; The thorn-bush said to the trees, &lsquo;If you really want to anoint me king over you, come and take refuge in my shade; but if not, then let fire come out of the thorn-bush and consume the cedars.&#39; This story is a direct quote from the Bible, as given by Jotham, the youngest son of Gideon &ndash; a former distinguished judge over Israel. Jotham, a God fearing young man, was concerned that his brother Abimelech had conned his 70 brothers into appointing him leader over Israel. &nbsp;Abimelech had approached them arguing that it was better for one of their own to take over leadership after their father&rsquo;s death. And so, their hearts were inclined to follow Abimelech, for they said, &ldquo;He is our brother.&rdquo; &nbsp;So they not only nominated him, but they also gave him 70 pieces of silver in support of his candidature. But, Abimelech was still not confident that they would not contest against him. And so, with the money, Abimelech hired thugs, with whom he went and killed his 70 brothers, except Jotham who fled and hid in a cave. READ MORE Ex-ECK official has no regrets over 2007 polls CJ job: Kongani dares but fails to conquer Judicial officers will work as a family unit under my watch, Nambuye tells panel Just as Abimelech had anticipated, with no contender left, all the citizens of Shechem gathered to crown him king. It was at this point that Jotham arose from his hiding and, with the parable of the trees, warned the people about the grave mistake they were about to make. In his view, the appointment of Abimelech would be like the crowning of a thorn-bush. But Jotham left the decision to them as he concluded, &ldquo;Now, if you have acted honourably and in good faith when you made Abimelech king, may Abimelech be your joy, and may you be his, too! But if you have not, let fire come out from Abimelech and consume you.&rdquo; He then fled for his life. Under the current constitutional dispensation, the position of CJ is a critical office in this land. The Judiciary has certainly taken a key and central role in the individual and collective lives of Kenyans. Indeed the courts are now the final bastion of hope in almost all matters of our social intercourse. But, even more critically, whereas courts are primarily supposed to be interpreters of the law, they also play the more serious role of law making through their rulings. Unlike laws made in Parliament, however, court rulings become almost universal points of reference. It is a known fact, that the socio-political landscape of the USA has been shaped by the courts. Controversial issues such as the place of the Church and State, abortion and homosexuality &ndash; have been determined by courts. A similar trend is picking up in Kenya. It is therefore critical that whoever is appointed to sit at the helm of the Judiciary, must be one who is not only alive to our national aspirations, values, and beliefs; but is totally sold out to the same. Such a man or woman must not be an Abimelech who will readily succumb to the lure of the silver of local cartels or pander to foreign ideologies of external musketeers. It is unfortunate that the olive, the fig, and the vine trees, often refrain from seeking such leadership, thereby giving the thorn-bush a field day. But, like Jotham we want to plead with the JSC to act honourably and in good faith in appointing the new CJ. Please, not a thorn-bush. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;