Thousands of delegates will converge at Kasarani today (Friday) to ratify the merger of 11 parties into Jubilee Party. President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy, William Ruto, will next year seek re-election through the party, which will be officially launched Saturday. Thursday, each of the 11 parties affiliated to the ruling coalition held speedy and choreographed national delegates conference to approve a resolution to support the merger, which effectively paved the way for their dissolution. The parties were then required to deposit agreements with the Registrar of Political Parties confirming that their relevant organs had ratified the decision. &quot;The parties merging will first deposit the dissolution agreement. On the day of the merger, they will sign a merger agreement to join the Jubilee Party,&quot; Registrar of Political Parties Lucy Ndung&#39;u explained. The parties will be dissolved by operation of law once the merger instruments are received and approved by the registrar. READ MORE Locals to withdraw support for Jubilee over false promises Ruto's URP and some of the ruling coalition affiliate outfits dissolve to form Jubilee Party No fanfare as JAP exits and Jubilee enters Today, Mr Ruto is expected to address the delegates in setting the stage for the keynote speech by President Kenyatta Saturday who will also name the 77-member National Executive Committee that will lead the party. The parties that resolved to close shop at Kasarani Thursday were The National Alliance (TNA), United Republican Party (URP), Grand National Unity (GNU), TIP TIP and Ford People. At Bomas, delegates voted to wind up United Democratic Front (UDF), Alliance Party of Kenya (APK), New Ford Kenya (NFK), Jubilee Alliance Party (JAP), Republican Congress Party of Kenya (RC) and Unity Party of Kenya (UPK). There was confusion about the fate of PNU when some people claiming to be party delegates jammed Kasarani last evening for their NDC. But other officials dismissed the group as impostors. And the Jubilee coalition will hope that their party won&#39;t be spoilt today when the Political Parties Tribunal is expected to listen to a petition that has implications on the new outfit. Kanu has moved to the tribunal seeking orders to restrain Jubilee Party from using colours the independence party .has identified with for decades. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;