The youth transformational initiatives under implementation by the Government are designed to meet the needs, aspirations, wants and hopes of our youth and establish a youth economy. A multiple approach in which transformative youth empowerment is being implemented through the Youth Empowerment Programme under the umbrella of the National Youth Service is creating employment for the young Kenyans through the Youth Enterprise Development Fund. The progress of these initiatives in the past three years has not only been encouraging, it also informs us that our quest for the establishment of a youth economy nationally can be achieved faster than ever envisaged. For instance, during that three-year period, about 2,000,000 of our youth have benefited from Affirmative Action funds disbursed by the Government to the tune of over Sh11.7 billion, with individual repayment rates averaging 76 per cent. This initiative, under the Youth Enterprise Development Fund, engages young Kenyans in economic development and increased financial activity among themselves, reduces poverty and enhances life and entrepreneurial skills, as well as creates formal and self-employment. Further, about 77,000 youths have been engaged for work in 74 constituencies under the Youth Empowerment Programme through the National Youth Service and earned Sh5.4 billion and created 300 Sacco&#39;s with a whopping Sh1.4 billion in savings. READ MORE PS Mangiti and NYS boss plotted Sh695m theft, says official Suspects in NYS case seek gag order against Waiguru House team wants Mutahi Ngunyi to refund NYS millions They have constructed, among others, 212 small water dams and water pans as part of their work. Over 23,325 youth are undergoing training to acquire necessary skills while over 37,000 others have been recruited into the National Youth Service. This has led to structured social transformation of the youth, empowerment of community youth through gainful engagement, created youth economies in those areas, reduced crime, increased infrastructure and access to clean water, and enhanced their employability. In this regard, I would like to challenge the youth in this country to seize the moment and become involved with these initiatives with the knowledge that they are the biggest demographic in Kenya at ages 15 to 24 years old and have solid support from President Uhuru Kenyatta. Further, with a predominantly youthful population of around 72 per cent under 35 years, any development programme in Kenya cannot succeed unless it caters for the youth. What this means is that there is no linear path to enterprise development. Research and profiling as well as active engagement with intended target groups are all critical to enterprise promotion policies and programmes. Over the years, practical experience has informed Government that providing access to credit and financing, though critical, is not sufficient in spurring entrepreneurial development. The missing link has been the provision of access to markets and opportunities for trade. These funds, established by the Government several years ago, have not only made capital accessible to youth-owned enterprises, but also extended free business training to them. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;