The Philippines moved to shore up relations with the United States on Tuesday with guarantees that a treaty between them would be honored and security ties were &quot;rock solid&quot;, despite President Rodrigo Duterte&#39;s railings against Washington. The firebrand leader launched more verbal salvos on Monday about what he called atrocities under American colonial rule, calling for the pullout of U.S. special forces stationed in the restive south that he said were complicating counter-insurgency operations. Duterte is hugely popular at home for his brash remarks and take-charge style, but his frequent tirades against Washington, including calling both President Barack Obama and his ambassador to Manila a &quot;son of a bitch&quot;, have tested a relationship of strategic importance to both sides. Foreign Minister Perfecto Yasay said Duterte&#39;s remarks, including that the southern Philippines &quot;would never have peace&quot; while allied with Washington, were not a signal that a pact between them would be abrogated. &quot;The president has said ... that we will respect and continue to honor our treaty obligations and commitments,&quot; Yasay said in a radio interview. As his administration scurried to put out fires, Duterte followed up with a guarantee of his own, saying the Philippines would not &quot;cut our umbilical cord&quot; with allies, but would pursue its own path. READ MORE Duterte says he wants U.S. special forces out of southern Philippines Israeli aircraft attack Syrian army position, Israel denies any shot down Spartans whip JKUAT in women's hockey &quot;We are not, we could never be, just a small country and to be shouted at or lectured upon,&quot; he said in a speech at an air force event. It was the latest sign of the abrasive former lawyer hinting at taking decisive measures, then later ruling them out, adding to concerns in Washington about his volatility. Obama last week canceled a meeting with Duterte after his outburst, saying the mood was not conducive to productive talks. At an official ceremony on Monday, Duterte said U.S. special forces could become high-value targets for Abu Sayyaf rebels notorious for kidnapping and beheading foreigners. &#39;ROCK SOLID&#39; But that, the military said in a statement, would entail the exit of a &quot;token&quot; number of Americans, and broader defense programs with the United States would remain intact. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;