County governments are on the spot again over their priorities on spending with the Controller of Budget taking issue with the Sh2 billion spent on sitting allowances. The amount spent by Members of the County Assemblies (MCAs) for the 2015-16 financial year is still far too high, exceeding statutory ceilings in most counties. This is not the first time this issue has been raised and that is why the matter must be flagged again. Busia County was cited for being the highest spender on sitting allowances. Each ward representative in this county was paid Sh202,969, surpassing the Sh124,800 ceiling laid down by the Salaries and Remuneration Commission. When too much funds are spent to conduct meetings and on administrative matters rather than operational expenses, ultimately the benefits to local people are curtailed. Therefore administrative costs must be kept to a bare minimum &mdash; there have been far too many reports highlighting the expenditure of counties on non-priority items, and often, MCAs have been cited for abusing their privileges by increasing their personal emoluments. And this is why guidelines on such payments were developed. When reports of such malfeasance emerge at a time development projects stall because funds are lacking, public outrage is inevitable. The public suffers the ignominy of impassable roads, schools without facilities and rivers without proper bridges. READ MORE Kanu allies demand Deputy President William Ruto's apology over 'insults' Pro-Gachagua MCAs kicked out No Eurobond money was lost, insists Controller of Budget Agnes Odhiambo Recently, there have been reports of projects stalling and county workers downing their tools on account of grievances over their welfare. Indeed, just yesterday a clinical officer died when she was giving birth at a public hospital in Kakamega County at a time nurses had downed tools over a pay dispute. This example of poor service delivery is replicated in most counties. This was not what Kenyans envisaged when they voted overwhelmingly for the 2010 Constitution &mdash; they wanted those in the periphery to be more involved in determining how their capital resources are utilised. It is a tragedy when these resources are misused and spent on non-priority items and luxuries that do not improve the welfare of Wanjiku. MCAs must not abuse their privileges &mdash; they have often been cited for railroading governors to do their bidding, and many county bosses who have refused to budge have faced reckless and punitive impeachment proceedings in their assemblies. The county leadership must style up. Governors and their executives must impose fiscal discipline in county affairs or prepare to pay a heavy price in next year&rsquo;s General Election.