Kitale: Two Ford Kenya Members of Parliament (MPs) clashed in public over the Trans-Nzoia gubernatorial race as political realignments take shape. Chris Wamalwa (Kiminini) and his Tongaren counterpart Eseli Simiyu traded bitter words and engaged in fist fight at Kitale members Club. Trouble started when Eseli dismissed Wamalwa&#39;s bid to unseat Governor Patrick Khaemba in next year&#39;s general election, claiming that the MP is out to weaken the party. &quot;Dr Wamalwa, what you are doing is not good for the party. Governor Khaemba is steadfast in the party and let us support him so that he can recapture the seat,&rdquo; Eseli said during the exchange. He added: &quot;We know some people are working for the interest of Jubilee administration and as a party, we are not going to allow that.&rdquo; The remarks angered Wamalwa who told off Eseli, arguing that he wanted to take the governor&#39;s seat in order to curb runaway corruption in the county. READ MORE Farmers decry poor state of feeder roads MP Chris Wamalwa considers joining crowded race for governor 18km of town's roads set to be tarmacked &ldquo;I have a constitutional right to contest for any elective position and it is wrong for you to come from Bungoma to teach us how we should run our affairs,&rdquo; Wamalwa said in response. A fight broke out when Eseli claimed that Wamalwa is a Jubilee mole in Opposition.&nbsp; It took the intervention of the club members and aides of the two legislators to separate them. When contacted for comment, Wamalwa admitted that he differed with Eseli over his quest to become the governor of Trans-Nzoia County. &quot;It is true we differed and exchanged words at the club. I never expected my colleague to protect people accused of perpetuating corruption,&quot; said Wamalwa. Wamalwa accused Eseli of trying to interfere with affairs of Trans-Nzoia and protecting the officials at the county government implicated in the vice. &quot;I know he is supporting governor Khaemba because his kin is a senior official at the county government and I&#39;m warning him against interfering with local affairs,&quot; he said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;