Cyrus Mathenge&rsquo;s goat farming is grounded on their near stress-free management and assurance of a constant stream of income daily. Mathenge rears dairy goats on an eighth of acre piece of land near Kimbimbi market, Kirinyaga County. Each day, he wakes up early to feed and milk the goats and afterwards he is free to engage in other activities until around 5pm when he repeats the ritual. He started with just one she-goat in 2012 that he bought at Sh7,000. The goat gave birth to three others. In 2013, he bought two dairy goats at Sh15,000 and Sh11,000, respectively, from Mukurweini, Nyeri County, to add to his flock. In July 2014 when he embarked on goat rearing as a full time venture, Mathenge bought two more and today the entire flock has grown to seven mature she-goats and eight kids, while he has sold some. One she-goat produces two litres of milk, while the other six a litre each twice a day, earning him between Sh600 and Sh800 daily after selling a litre at Sh80. &ldquo;Demand for goat milk here at Kimbimbi is high. We are a few farmers selling the milk and we hardly satisfy the market. Goat milk is medicinal and contains high levels of calcium, hence important to children and old people,&rdquo; Mathenge says. READ MORE Nyeri County MCAs fight in assembly and attack journalists Nyeri arson case delay embarrassing, says magistrate MCAs now plot to impeach Nyeri Governor for the second time Mathenge, whose last born daughter is a university student, sells a she-goat kid at Sh9,000 and when in need of money for school fees, he sells a lactating goat for at least Sh35,000. &ldquo;I love what I do because there are few hassles. The cost of production is low while goat diseases are minimal. Goats take less feed and mature fast,&rdquo; he says. Mathenge plans to increase his flock to between 35 and 40 mature she-goats by 2018 so that he would be able to milk all year round while some are pregnant. He targets to achieve a production of three litres per goat at that time. He counts on his goat rearing venture for his retirement, having tried various ventures during his most productive years but none interested him like the goats did. Mathenge is also a member of Kimbimbi Dairy Goats Association, which empowers members to produce more and earn higher. The association also rears a pedigree he-goat, given by the Dairy Goats Association of Kenya, that mates with members&rsquo; she-goats to produce improved offsprings, eliminating need for farmers to rear he-goats. Mathenge now hopes to increase his flock to produce enough milk to sell to far markets. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;