Residents of Marakwet East want the Government to end cattle rustling, which is claiming lives in Kerio Valley. The angry residents claimed about 20 people have been killed in cattle theft-related attacks in the area in the past few months and over 10,000 animals stolen. The latest incident was on Friday when a herder was gunned down at Sibow in Tot by suspected Pokot attackers. Locals told The Standard cattle rustling has affected development in the region, especially over the past 15 years, and warned of a possible humanitarian crisis unless the situation is checked. Mr Sawachan Kinur, a resident, said: &quot;Many people have been forced out of their homes due to frequent attacks. We have also lost our livestock and that is why we want the Government to move with speed and restore peace in this area.&quot; &quot;Some of our people are now living in caves while others have abandoned their farms and fled to other areas. We need action to end the cattle rustling menace now,&quot; Kinur said yesterday. READ MORE Scores injured as youths in Kambi Somali clash over land Kenya's sole ocean research ship gets new equipment Germany warns of threat from 500 &ldquo;potential attackers&rdquo; Residents say the presence of the over 400 police officers the Government recently deployed to help stop blood letting in the area has not been felt as Marakwet and Pokots herders continue to engage in cattle rustling along the Kerio Valley. &quot;The officers are only seen moving along the Tot-Biretwo road instead of patrolling the affected areas along the Kerio River which have been witnessing frequent attacks,&quot; said Kinur. Linah Kiptum, who lost her brother in-law during one of the attacks, accused the Government of neglecting them. &quot;The Government is also reluctant to disarm members of Pokot community who are perpetrating the attacks,&quot; she added. She added: &quot;We have many widows and orphans in this area as a result of these senseless killings. For how long will our neighbours kill our people? Who will take care of the families that are left behind? The government must rescue us.&quot; Governor Alex Tolgos wants the Government to implement peace resolutions made during meetings at Chesegon in West Pokot County, Sangach in Marakwet East and Kolowa in Baringo. The peace deals required locals to, among other things, return all stolen animals. &quot;We are not second class citizens and the Government must stem the wave of insecurity brought about by cattle rustling,&quot; the governor said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;