Raila fired back, accusing the governor of avoiding the substantive issues and instead concentrating on personal attacks on him. &quot;Governor Iria should stop being a coward and stand up for the survival of his people. Their livelihoods are in total danger. This is what must be his only priority, not pandering to selfish political and commercial interests,&quot; Raila said. Yesterday, Water CS Eugene Wamalwa visited the site of the Northern Collector Water Tunnel (NCWT) project in Murang&#39;a designed to boost water supply to Nairobi and declared it would continue despite protests by the Opposition chief. Under the project, water in three rivers - Irati, Gikigie and Maragua - would be diverted at source to Ndakaini dam through a 11.8km long tunnel to boost supply to Nairobi by up to 140,000 cubic metres daily. Raila has labelled the project &quot;secret tunnels of death&quot; warning that the disruption of water flow in the rivers that feed into River Tana could turn Murang&#39;a, Garissa, Ukambani and Tana Delta regions into deserts. Wa Iria further stated that the World Bank and the County Assembly had both given the project a clean bill of health. READ MORE Stateless people demand citizenship from the Kenyan Government. 9,000 public schools in Kenya to get water in Sh15b drive The political silly season of ethnic arithmetic is here with us again LOCAL LEADERS &quot;Raila does not have facts on the project. He is just echoing what some local leaders have said in the press,&quot; Wa Iria said, drawing attention to the divisions among Murang&#39;a leaders. Among those who had expressed their opposition to the project was Murang&#39;a Senator Kembi Gitura, who had raised questions on environmental impact and lamented that the rivers were the lifeline for Murang&#39;a, where only 30 per cent of residents have access to clean water. Wa Iria, who was accompanied by MCAs dismissed claims that Murang&#39;a residents did not approve of the project. &quot;The people are not opposed to the project, all they needed was an assurance that they would also benefit from the project,&quot; he said. The county chief further questioned the timing of Raila&#39;s protests, saying his concerns had little to do with the environmental impact of the project and were aimed at raising political temperatures in the country. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;