Police will no longer be directly in charge of national examination&nbsp;papers, as a strict procedure is implemented to secure distribution&nbsp;to schools. A total of 346 strong double-lock metal containers - whose&nbsp;keys are only with education officials - have been distributed&nbsp;across all the sub-county offices and county commissioners&nbsp;tasked to ensure 24-hour security. Headteachers will collect exam papers at 5am every day from these containers, which must be opened jointly by the sub-county education officials and an examinations official in the presence of a police officer. The head teacher and sub-county education officer will sign against accountability documents confirming both the container and exam papers have not been tampered with, and then be escorted by a senior police officer to the exam centres. In the past, exam papers have been kept in the Kenya National Examinations Council (Knec) offices in Nairobi and then dispatched to police armouries across the country, sometimes up to four days earlier, an arrangement that facilitated leaks. But now, papers will arrive from overseas one week to the start of exams for temporary storage in protected regional distribution centres in Nairobi, Mombasa, Eldoret and Wajir. READ MORE 22 candidates to miss KCSE exams after school failed to register them Head teachers to get allowances as exam council writes to students over cheating Guard exams to tame cheating, parents urged From here, they will be dispatched to the sub-county containers from where there will be daily deliveries, with Knec even hiring helicopters for deliveries in far-flung areas. These are among the security measures to protect the distribution of Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) and Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) exam papers. Protect distribution Authorities have moved to protect the distribution system after introducing enhanced security features to protect the individual papers that include tamper-proof packaging and watermark barcodes on the papers to deter copying. Each page of the question papers to be used by candidates will have specific watermark barcodes that will help in investigations and identification of any copying. Shrink-wrapping has also been introduced on all examination cartons to discourage breakage. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 4 Next &raquo;