President Uhuru Kenyatta interrupted a session of the fortnightly State House Summit and berated senior government officials for waging a seemingly half-hearted fight on corruption. Mr Kenyatta had been watching the proceedings on TV somewhere within State House yesterday morning and apparently, the ping-pong game that played between the officers over who was responsible for poor results in the war on corruption touched a raw nerve in him. He then strode in,asked for the microphone and quickly&nbsp;accused the officers tasked with investigations and prosecution of throwing weak punches all around. Mr Kenyatta told a bewildered summit moderator Jeff Koinange that he was the host and was therefore excused for hijacking the proceedings. And for 19 minutes and 15 seconds, the President lamented about the lackluster performance of the Judiciary, the Director of Public Prosecutions, the Attorney General, the Auditor General and the Directorate of Criminal Investigation. Uhuru defended his administration, stating that he has allocated enough resources and done more than what any other administration in the country&rsquo;s history had to fight corruption. READ MORE Ouko team faults law on merger of political parties and wants it reviewed Raila five demands to Uhuru over borrowing spree Judge suspends arrest and trial of mnazi sellers and drinkers at Kenyan Coast &ldquo;When it comes to graft whose role is it, who is responsible? Corruption is the issue that has frustrated me the most. But I ask, show me any administration since Independence that has taken action like I have done?&rdquo; he posed. He expressed his frustration with slow progress in the war on graft. &ldquo;What is your problem? If there has been theft, tell us if it is Uhuru who stole. What do you want me to do? A lot of nonsense if I may say the least,&rdquo; said Uhuru, in a jibe directed at heads of agencies mandated to fight graft. Uhuru directly blamed Ethics and Anti-Graft Commission (EACC) boss Halakhe Waqo, Attorney General Githu Muigai, Director of Public Prosecution Keriako Tobiko, Auditor General Edward Ouko and the Judiciary for failing to prosecute corrupt individuals. LIST OF SHAME While most of his swipes were directed at the Judiciary, perhaps the biggest jibe was reserved for the beleaguered Halakhe Waqo. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 4 5 6 Next &raquo;