In less than a month America will head to the polls. Many Kenyans may find the world&rsquo;s fascination with America&rsquo;s politics intriguing and even annoying. But a keen watcher of international affairs must recognise that America remains the most significant actor in international affairs. While China may be pushing its weight in international economics, while Putin&rsquo;s Russia can still destabilise the world, whilst Europe may still export its culture to its former dominions, America&rsquo;s influence on global politics, economics and culture remains unchallenged. As history records, a fundamental change in America&rsquo;s economic policy or its approach on human rights can have far reaching global impact. It is generally agreed that George W Bush&rsquo;s funding for the war against HV/Aids in the continent helped slow down the epidemic. Jimmy Carter&rsquo;s personal values led to the greatest human rights interventions by America in many parts of the world leading to major changes in Central America and closer home, Zimbabwe. More recently Bill Clinton&rsquo;s hands off policy were a principal contributor to Rwanda genocide while Obama&rsquo;s mixed-messaging in the Middle East has contributed significantly to the Syria crisis. As a general rule institutions drive domestic US policy, while America&rsquo;s Presidents tend to have more wiggle room in foreign policy hence the global interest in American elections. While previous US elections have been largely predicable with little threat of fundamental change in policy, this round, the Donald Trump phenomenon has beaten all odds and thrust before our eyes the scary possibility of an American President who is not only unashamedly misogynistic and even racist but who may pivot America foreign policy and trade to the extreme right. It is true that Hillary Clinton, after many years in the public limelight entered the race with significant scruples about her honesty and judgment, but the contrast between her and Trump in terms of character, experience and world view couldn&rsquo;t be starker. With all of Trumps negatives, one would have expected Clinton to be planning her Cabinet by now. Instead, the polls seem to indicate a close race, and that&rsquo;s before one takes into account the so-called Bradley effect, which may be resulting in a significant understating of Trump&rsquo;s numbers. What then should the world fear about a Trump Presidency? In international trade, we should expect a more protectionist America. While America has been the largest beneficiary of globalisation, the Donald appears to favour locking out the world from America&rsquo;s markets, which would naturally be replicated in the West pronouncing disaster for upcoming economies like Kenya which are increasingly depending on exports of floriculture and other goods. The resultant trade wars will depress the international economy further, with developing economies paying the greatest price. Secondly, the days of American largesse for the sake of global goals may be ending. Nothing discloses this better than Trumps mercantilist, nay, mercenary position on NATO, demanding payment for America&rsquo;s protection. If this &ldquo;what&rsquo;s in it for me&rdquo; attitude is extended to other areas where America has supported and funded causes purely for global peace and prosperity, the world must prepare for a calamitous Trump deficit. Trump has also sounded quite casual about using American firepower to pursue American interests. If there is one thing American intervention in Iraq, Libya and Afghanistan has taught us, it is that the days of America shooting its way to global solutions are long gone. We may yet see more wasteful war, and, considering how offhand he is on nuclear war, maybe even the big one! READ MORE Trump defiantly apologises after lewd remarks about women revealed Trump backs off praise of Russia's Putin after debate Trump&rsquo;s presidency will benefit Africa Finally America, with all its faults, has still been the greatest crusader and supporter of human rights. It does not appear that Trump is a great respecter of human rights, except the Second amendment. For many citizens in this part of the world, global support for human rights is still the greatest guarantee against tyranny. Will Trump and an increasingly insular world look away as tyrants massacre their populations? One fears so. So, while we have no vote come November 4, America&rsquo;s decision make will impact us greatly. The most we can do is pray that at worst, America&rsquo;s choice will leave the world in its current state. At best, our hope is that the choice will make the world safer, kinder and more prosperous.