Renovation work ongoing at a dormitory that was burnt down at Kirobon Boys, Nakuru County where at least 200 students were affected. (Photo: Mercy Kahenda/Standard) Siaya: Mbaga Girls High School in Siaya County has been closed indefinitely following two fire outbreaks on Thursday morning and Friday evening. Principal Mary Lucy Abidha said the Friday evening fire started when the students were attending evening preps. &quot;The students noticed the fire and raised an alarm. The matter is already being investigated by the police. We have not received any complaints from the students,&quot; she said on Friday evening. According to Siaya OCPD Ancent Kaloki, the school had to be closed indefinitely because a section of students had no accommodation. The OCPD noted that the fire incident of Friday evening razed down all the properties in the dormitory leaving over 200 students with nowhere to sleep. READ MORE Exam cheats face 10-year jail term Fire outbreak at Mbaga Girls' High School in Siaya KNEC should streamline payments for teachers &quot;We are yet to establish the cause of the two fire outbreaks but I confidently report that it is not an electricity fault. The dormitories affected were housing form two and three students only,&quot; he said. The OCPD further stated that they have ruled out students&#39; role in the fire outbreak stating that an investigation by his officers show that the students were not even willing to leave school on the day it was closed down. &quot;We captured that the students were bitter about the school closing and information by my officers after talking to several of them says that there are people who wanted the principal to leave the school but they do not have the support of the students,&quot; Kaloki revealed. He said the school staff will record statements over the incident, adding that there were no deaths or injuries as speculated on social media. &quot;The form four students were not excited about going home and they kept asking why they have to go home yet their dormitories are not affected. They feel that they will lose a lot but we are working on speedy investigations to ensure they are back to school,&quot; added Kaloki. County director of education Nerea Olick condemned the incident and said that they will not keep the students away from school for a long period. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;