Nairobi: President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto are facing a fresh dilemma in picking Jubilee Party interim officials without hurting political partners in the merger. Apart from the scramble for 19 key slots up for grabs in the new outfit, the merger process is also being threatened by court orders barring some of the dissolving parties from closing shop ahead of the official launch on Saturday. Various political parties and groups yesterday made known their demands for the crucial positions in the new outfit, which Uhuru and Ruto will use to vie for re-election in next year&#39;s polls. Leaders from Western demanded the region be given the secretary general and treasurer posts so as to address regional balance and create a sense of belonging among voters. At the same time, a political lobby group has asked that Meru Senator Kiraitu Murungi be considered for the powerful position of secretary general. New Ford Kenya leader and Bungoma Governor Ken Lusaka yesterday said it would only be fair if the party were given the secretary general&#39;s position. He said giving the region national positions would help leaders fight political propaganda that they had sold their parties to Jubilee and also sell the party in the region perceived to be in the Opposition CORD. READ MORE Why deputy governors in Kenya need clear roles President Uhuru and Msambweni MP in land clash Plans for second tourism college win President Uhuru&rsquo;s praise &quot;It will help us dispel rumours that we have sold our parties to Jubilee. &quot;It will also give us a good platform to sell the new outfit in Western and also address the issue of inclusion,&quot; noted Mr Lusaka. The President, who is also The National Alliance (TNA) party leader, and Ruto who is the United Republican Party head, will hold interim party leader and deputy party leader slots respectively. That leaves 19 positions to be filled out of the 21 national positions in the new political body. According to the new outfit&#39;s pre-merger agreement, parliamentary strength would be a key determinant of how the national positions would be shared out. Uhuru&#39;s TNA has eight governors, 72 MPs, 14 woman representatives, 10 senators and 353 members of the county assembly (MCAs), bringing the total to 458 elected leaders. The URP has 10 governors, nine senators, 62 MPs, 10 woman representatives and 248 MCAs, bringing the total of elected leaders to 339. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;