It is all systems go for the grand convention that will usher in President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto&rsquo;s new re-election vehicle, after nine months of negotiations. Ruling coalition leaders Wednesday confirmed that every aspect of the three day event was already in place, promising that it would be one of the greatest political events in the country. Earlier, President Kenyatta met with top officials of constituent parties to finalise preparations for the multiple national delegates conventions that will be held in Bomas and Kasarani to dissolve a dozen parties today. &quot;We are working on the legal documents and other required particulars that will be needed once the affiliate parties ratify the merger at their NDCs. They will then nominate two officials who will accompany their lawyer to deposit the legal instruments at the Registrar of Political Parties by tomorrow (Thursday),&quot; National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale told a press conference at State House Wednesday. Present at Wednesday&#39;s State House meeting were leaders of constituent parties - party chairmen and secretary generals - for discussions on the final details of the merger. READ MORE Uhuru's Sh20b shot in the arm to boost agriculture It will take more than &lsquo;resolutions&rsquo; to save the world Divorce party affairs from functions of State &quot;The coalition&#39;s legal experts were present at the meeting to take the constituent parties through the requirement. The parties will hold their NDCs tomorrow (today) except PNU, to ratify the merger,&quot; said Mr Duale. Jubilee Party merger co-chairs Kiraitu Murungi and Noah Wekesa described the convention that begins today as &quot;one of the greatest political events&quot; in the country. Mr Kiraitu confirmed that party lawyers had ensured that all legal requirements for the merger had been met and that nothing was standing in the way to the dissolution of 14 Jubilee affiliate parties. &quot;Everything has gone on very well. Already, our lawyers have confirmed to us that all legal steps have been met,&quot; said Kiraitu. Affiliate parties By Wednesday, Jubilee leaders said the affiliate parties set to close shop included The National Alliance Party (TNA), United Republican Party (URP), Jubilee Alliance Party (JAP), Alliance Party of Kenya (APK), United Democratic Front (UDF), New Ford Kenya, UPK, Republican Council, Tip Tip, Saba Saba Asili, Ford People, Party of National Unity (PNU) and Grand National Union (GNU). GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;