Embattled electoral commissioners could remain in office until the end of the year, despite a recommendation by the House joint committee that they exit by end of this month. Justice and Legal Affairs Committee Chairman Samuel Chepkonga said given the timelines that must be followed, a September exit would be inconceivable, as the Senate only passed the Elections Amendment Bill 2016 last week. President Uhuru Kenyatta will now have seven days to assent to it, but there could be further delay because the Bill did not have a commencement date. Chepkonga said the law is clear that any Bill passed without publishing date comes to effect after 21 days. &ldquo;After the Senate passing the Bill, add another seven days within which the Head of State will assent to the law, on top of that another 21 days. From there then we will start putting up a selection panel, which will go through the interviews for the new team,&rdquo; he said. He said the appointment of members of the selection panel could further delay the process, thereby delaying exit of the current commissioners. READ MORE Raila must repackage himself as political landscape is jolted Uhuru&rsquo;s unity call as 2017 election vehicle unveiled Show of might, jubilation as delegates unite in &lsquo;Tuko Pamoja&rsquo; chorus Chepkonga&rsquo;s committee is mandated to oversee creation of a seven-member selection panel that will pick the new commissioners that will manage the August 2017 General Election. Bitter confrontation After a bitter confrontation between Jubilee and Coalition for Reforms and Democracy (CORD) over the suitability of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) members to run the electoral agency, the two teams, through the&nbsp; Parliamentary Joint Select Committee on Electoral Reforms, negotiated an exit process for the commissioners, whose tenure is protected by law. The negotiated deal, which was settled last month, agreed to have IEBC chairman Issack Hassan and the other eight commissioners step down by September and pave way for a new team to supervise the elections. The select committee co-chaired by senators James Orengo and Kiraitu Murungi had noted that the early exit would give the new team adequate time to prepare for polls. &ldquo;We have a deal on IEBC, specifically the 10 points we had marked and the related processes to ensure that the 2017 General Election is free and fair and we hope the commissioners will remain in office and hand over to the successor team not later than September 30, 2016.,Orengo said at the time. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;