Confusion reigns as the country heads into the last week of the negotiated exit period for the Independent Electoral and Boundary Commission (IEBC) commissioners. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi yesterday blamed the Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC) and the National Treasury for the delay in paying off the commissioners. Whereas a Parliamentary Joint Select Committee for Electoral Reforms had recommended that the polls body officials be paid their dues before they leave office by September 30, the Treasury is yet to release money for the commissioners&rsquo; exit package. The processing of the exit package seems to have stalled and Muturi is now accusing the Treasury and SRC of &ldquo;remaining conspicuously silent&rdquo; on the cash. Muturi said Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich and Sarah Serem of the SRC had not made any offer to allow the eight commissioners to leave, leading to a delay in their replacement. &ldquo;The Treasury in conjunction with the SRC should have advanced that facilitation. The agreement to have the Isaac Hassan-led team leave office will cost taxpayers Sh180 million. READ MORE CORD: We will resume anti-IEBC demos next week MP wants defectors barred from Parliament Buildings Primaries pose huge challenge to IEBC &ldquo;The country is losing time for replacement and familiarisation of the proposed new team and preparation for the 2017 elections.&rdquo; Muturi explained that it will be difficult to send the IEBC commissioners home without their agreed dues, as there is no law requiring them to exit office in the new Elections Amendment Act 2016. He said their positions could not be advertised unless those in office, including the chairman, have left. &ldquo;The Constitution stipulates that the position of a commissioner becomes vacant by either resigning or being removed from office through constitutional means,&rdquo; he said. Rotich yesterday said that they were still negotiating with the team and will come up with the package soon. Suplementary budget GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;