KENYA: Bodies of two men have been discovered in oil tank in a ship at Kisumu Port. The two were suspected to have accessed the facility on Saturday night to syphon oil from the ship said to belong to a Tanzania national. Their bodies were discovered on Sunday evening by a member of the crew who was inspecting the cargo destined for Tanzania. A casual employee in the facility who sought anonymity as he is not allowed to speak to the press said the two might have suffocated while inside the tanker. &quot;There is a very strong fume from the tanker and those people could not manage to escape without protective gear,&quot; said the employee who was among the first people to access the scene. Up to 7pm on Sunday, the bodies were yet to be retrieved from the tanker as police officers who responded to the distress call declined to get into the tanker for fear of their safety. READ MORE Five die in Mai Mahiu in separate incidents Somali general, 7 bodyguards killed in suspected car bomb attack 17 Indian soldiers, 4 militants killed in Kashmir attack &quot;We have no breath masks not fire engine and we cannot risk getting into the ship. We are trying to reach the relevant experts to help get the bodies out before we can confirm their identities,&quot; said an officer. Port Manager Mwalimu Disi said he could not confirm the identities of the dead nor comment on the matter as it was being handled by relevant authorities. County Police Commandant Titus Yoma confirmed the deaths saying officers had been sent to the ground to retrieve the bodies. &quot;The information I can confirm now is that we have received reports about bodies found in oil tanker, but much we can say after getting reliable information from officers on the ground,&quot; said Yoma. The incident has occurred barely one week after three people sustained serious injuries when flames burst in the same ship. The three were rescued and are still receiving treatment in various hospitals in the area. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;