ODM wants 13 governors and MPs who recently defected to Jubilee Party stripped of their party membership, signalling a long-drawn out battle for political survival of the rebels. Raila Odinga&rsquo;s party activated the disciplinary mechanism that could culminate in the targeted party rebels losing their seats if their names are struck off the party&rsquo;s register. ODM, Wiper Democratic Movement and Ford Kenya parties that form the Coalition for Reforms and Democracy have scoffed at 25 of their members who have switched allegiance to the ruling coalition. The party&#39;s disciplinary committee has written to 13 members who have publicly declared their defection to another political party to show cause why they should not be de-registered from the party. Those targeted are governors Ukur Yatani (Marsabit), Salim Mvurya (Kwale), Deputy Governor Joash Maangi (Kisii), MPs Steven Kariuki (Mathare), Mpuri Aburi (Tigania East), Gideon Mung&#39;aro (Kilifi North), Mustafa Iddi (Kilifi South), Cyprian Kubai (Igembe Central) and James Rege (Karachuonyo). Others include Samuel Arama (Nakuru Town West), John Waluke (Sirisia) nominated MP Isaac Mwaura and Kwale County Woman Representative Zainabu Chidzuga. READ MORE Raila hits out at Jubilee Party in Coast tour Jubilee Party supporters join ODM Kalonzo&rsquo;s conditions for leaving ticket to Raila The party&#39;s Disciplinary Committee chairman, Fred Athuok, yesterday told The Standard that the law on political parties was clear and that they would send the resolution to the Registrar of Political Parties. In letters written to each of the 13 members and copied to Registrar of Political Parties Lucy Ndung&#39;u, Mr Athuok cited Section (5)C of the Political Parties Act as having been blatantly violated by their action. &quot;This is simply a by-election. The law is clear that you cannot belong to two political parties at the same time. If you participate or join another political party while still a member of a political party, you are deemed to have joined that party,&quot; said Athuok. The letters have been sent to individual members via registered post and they are expected to respond in writing within seven days, failing which the committee will recommend to the party&#39;s National Executive Committee their expulsion for violating the law and the constitution of the party. In effecting the expulsion, necessary steps will be taken with the respective county, speakers and the election body petitioned to declare the seats vacant and necessitate by-elections. Even though both ODM and Ford Kenya threatened to kick the rebels out, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka challenged the defectors from his party to resign to test their popularity in a by-election. &quot;I want to challenge those who defected from Wiper party to resign formally and seek re-election. It is immoral to continue earning from the taxpayer almost Sh1 million when you have joined another political party other than the one that sponsored you,&quot; he said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;