Legislators from Nyanza have told leaders from other parties aspiring to be the CORD presidential flag bearer to join the queue and fight for their space. They spoke on a day that CORD co-principal Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula said he was not aware of talks between ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and CORD over the prospects by the opposition to field a single presidential candidate. The Nyanza MPs led by Siaya Senator James Orengo insisted that Raila Odinga must vie for the Presidency and warned that those trying to enter the race through the back door must join the queue. CORD leaders now say former Prime Minister Raila Odinga will contest the presidency next year and that anyone wishing to be endorsed by the ODM leader should hold their horses. They warned that those trying enter the race through the &ldquo;back door&rdquo; must join the long queue of aspirants interested in the CORD ticket. The leaders said they would not give out the presidency on a silver platter to latecomers, adding they were backing Raila because of his past sacrifices in the fight for the democratic space for many years. READ MORE Waiguru joins politics, eyes Kirinyaga top seat Nominated MP Isaac Mwaura ditches ODM ahead of 2017 poll Fresh ODM elections team warns over chaos The politicians, who included Senators James Orengo, Hassan Omar, Moses Kajwang, Prof Anyang&rsquo; Nyong&rsquo;o and MPs Fred Outa and James Nyikal said those eyeing the top seat through CORD must prove their worth. Elsewhere, CORD co-principal and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula said he was not aware of negotiations between ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and CORD on a possible working arrangement towards fielding a single presidential candidate. He said he has no problem if Mudavadi joins his side. Wetang&rsquo;ula said currently, they are seeking support of Kenyans to ascend to the top seat through their respective parties, which is a constitutional right for everyone. He further indicated he will continue walking the same path with Raila but asked him to shelve his ambitions and support him. &ldquo;I have no problem with Mudavadi. He is in Amani and I am in CORD. I have told him we can work together so as to redeem the image of Western region and the country at large,&rdquo; Wetang&rsquo;ula said. He added: &ldquo;Last time, Raila was in front. Right now, he should leave Wetang&rsquo;ula to lead. I am one of your own. A mother cannot leave his malnourished child just because the neighbour has a healthy child. You must nurture your own child.&rdquo; The Senate Minority Leader spoke at a women&rsquo;s conference at African Divine Church headquarters at Boyani in Vihiga County, where he emphasised the church&rsquo;s instrumental role in restoring social order. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;