SIAYA: The poisonous variety of cassava that has led to several deaths in Siaya County is known to agricultural officers. It has also emerged farmers plant it to keep thieves at bay. Known in Dholuo as &ldquo;nyaka anegi&rdquo; (I must kill you), this variety is secretly planted in between the safer variety to deter thieves who stray into others&rsquo; farms. That variety has killed many people, mostly children, who eat it raw to fight hunger during seasons when maize and other cereals such as sorghum are scarce or expensive. If the variety is put through the right process -- fermented, cleaned, dried and ground -- over several days, then it is safe for human for consumption. During the dry period, though, most families never have food, or the patience, and settle for &ldquo;nyaka anegi&rdquo; even from their own farms and hope for the best. READ MORE Mara lion poisoning case fails to kick off due to file hitch Four dead, one admitted after consuming poisonous cassava in Siaya Lack of drugs and unqualified staff hampering services in Siaya But many a time, they end up grieving, as it happened last Sunday when four children from one family died after eating cassava at Uhuru, Bara Gulu village in Siaya County. The victims included Vivian Otieno, 17, Stephen Otieno, 12, Christine Otieno, 11 and and Calvins Otieno, eight. The fifth child, Flavian Otieno, 12, survived and is recuperating at the Siaya County Referral Hospital. Their father, Sylvanus Otieno, a teacher at Ojola Primary School in Gem Sub-County and the mother, Penninah Akoth Ouma, said the children had eaten the cassava on Saturday and Sunday, before suddenly falling ill. They started falling ill one after the other on that fateful Sunday morning. But yesterday, The Standard reliably learnt that many farmers in Siaya know about the unsafe cassava variety but continue to plant it &ldquo;to kill crop thieves.&rdquo; Siaya agriculture officials have revealed for the first time that cassava farmers are mixing varieties during planting to save their farms from thieves. The unsafe variety has excessive cyanide -- a chemical dangerous to humans.&nbsp; GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;