The county government has recruited 113 enforcement officers as it seeks to boost revenue collection and improve service delivery. The officers will be tasked with enforcing various laws and also acting as traffic marshals. Governor Martin Wambora when he inspected the progress of the various projects at Embu Level Five Hospital. He&nbsp;said the officers will be expected to show loyalty to the county government and&nbsp; the public. (PHOTO: JOSEPH MUCHIRI/ STANDARD Speaking during their pass out parade at Kairuri Market, Governor Martin Wambora said the officers will be expected to show loyalty to the county government and&nbsp; the public. &quot;The enforcement officers will also be trained by police on how to handle various weapons so as to carry out enforcement work. They will be conducting traffic on our roads and carrying out other duties. They must be loyal to wananchi,&quot; said the governor. Mr Wambora (pictured) said the county had challenges in maximising revenue collection and that it lost over Sh200,000&nbsp;last year. He said the officers will come in handy in plugging gaps in revenue collection as the county seeks to raise Sh400 million in local revenue. READ MORE World Bank woos counties in new housing plan Officials suspended for delayed road projects Kenyans know who&rsquo;s eating their money Accompanying the governor were County Assembly Majority Leader Andrew Musakwa, his deputy Kanjogu Mugo and MCAs Linus Muchina (Mbeti North) and Martin Kathiori (Kiambere) who said there were many loopholes in which revenue was lost. Musakwa said most of the askaris inherited from the defunct local authorities were corrupt and solicited bribes instead of collecting revenue. He accused some county officers who man roadblocks of colluding with police officers and revenue collection clerks, and failing to issue receipts to lorries carrying sand and other goods. He recommended that askaris and officials inherited from former local authorities be retrained so as to end dishonesty and the culture of impunity.