Former police chief David Kimaiyo is expected to declare his candidature for the county senatorial seat this weekend. Sources said Kimaiyo will make the announcement during a thanksgiving service to celebrate his doctorate degree from the University of Nairobi. Kanu chairman, who is also Baringo Senator, Gideon Moi is expected to lead other politicians to the event at AIC Milimani in Cherangany Constituency. This will set the stage for a bruising battle with current senator Kipchumba Murkomen ahead of the 2017 polls. Kimaiyo hinted his interest in the seat saying he appreciates calls by Elgeyo Marakwet residents for him to contest the seat and that he will make an announcement soon. &quot;It is just a matter of time before Kenyans know of my political stand. At the moment, I am settling down after 35 years in the police service which has given me a lot of experience that will come in handy in my next job,&quot; said the former Inspector General of Police. READ MORE UK-based Kenyan politician to vie for presidency in 2017 elections The inconsistencies in opinion polling Coast professionals hit out at Governor Mvurya for backing Jubilee Kimaiyo had a short stint at the Kenya Airports Authority as board chairman before he was replaced by retired Chief of Defence Forces Julius Karangi. He has reportedly been holding talks with residents and local leaders over his possible candidature. He has been keen to attend fundraisers and other social gatherings in the county in the past few months. Some say he will contest on a Kanu ticket. &quot;I will hold a thanksgiving ceremony at home after graduating with a PhD from the University of Nairobi. That is when I will outline my plans for Elgeyo Marakwet ,&quot; he said. Kimaiyo said the ceremony will give him a chance to listen to the views of locals as he plans his next move. Both Kimaiyo and Murkomen hail from Marakwet East Sub-County and separated just by a village. Murkomen a vocal Jubilee senator and lawyer won the seat by a landslide in 2013.