Opposition leader Raila Odinga&rsquo;s two-day tour of Narok County has stirred political waters in Maasai land. Raila&rsquo;s continued talk of historical injustices in Maasai land, before and after independence seem to resonate well with the community, which turned up in large numbers for the two days he set camp in the county. Pundits say the reception during his his tour should worry the Jubilee coalition, which is keen to retain its political grip on the county. In the 2013 polls, the Jubilee coalition swept almost all elective seats, but the former Prime Minister beat President Uhuru Kenyatta by a slight margin after the final tally in the presidential votes. In 2007, Raila garnered more votes than former President Mwai Kibaki in Narok County, a region he is keen to keep ahead of the 2017 polls. Whenever Raila visits Narok, he pulls huge crowds. There are those who believe that he is the community&rsquo;s best hope in their fight for justice when it comes to issues that have continued to dog it for about a century. READ MORE Internal nominations will not shake JP There are no divisions in CORD, Raila Odinga says Kiraitu JP meeting illegitimate, says party&rsquo;s interim official Before he dumped ODM for Jubilee, the late Maasai kingpin and veteran politician William ole Ntimama regarded Raila as his people&rsquo;s saviour. &ldquo;He has the interest of the community at heart. If he one day becomes president, he will take us from Egypt to Canaan,&rdquo; Ntimama told a rally in Suswa, Narok East, before the 2007 General Election. As has been his rallying call over the last month, Raila challenged the government to implement the Truth Justice and Reconciliation Commission (TJRC) report, saying it addressed the thorny issue of the land that was taken from the Maasai by colonialists. Economic exclusion He claimed the Jubilee administration has also refused to implement TJRC recommendations on how to compensate the community and other minorities for years of deliberate economic marginalisation and exclusion. &ldquo;TJRC found that all post-independence governments have failed to honestly and adequately address land-related injustices that started with colonialism,&rdquo; he said at the rallies. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;