&nbsp; {Photo:Courtesy} Kabul:Parmi fled the fighting in the northern Afghan city of Kunduz with 13 members of her family this week, in shock at how quickly the city&#39;s defenses had collapsed to the Taliban. Now in Kabul, she speaks bitterly of the failure of the government to protect the city, a year on from the last time it was overrun by the Islamist militants. &quot;There is blood and dead bodies everywhere in Kunduz. Our young people are dying and the government hasn&#39;t done anything for us,&quot; she said, in the hotel she has been staying since Thursday with scores of other refugees from Kunduz. Her comments, and similar accounts from others, who speak of a blacked-out city running out of food, water and medicine, underline the despair of Kunduz residents and the anger building up against the government of President Ashraf Ghani. Parmi, 42, who like many Afghans goes by only one name, managed to escape with her family, putting a chain on the door of their house and leaving with only the clothes they were wearing after artillery and mortar fire hit their neighborhood. READ MORE Hospital medics forced to flee embattled Afghan city, jeopardizing care: officials End party infighting in county, Ugunja MP urges Raila The tragedy that is South Sudan and warring elite &quot;We had to crawl out of the area; there were bullets everywhere. We left home empty-handed, now my clothes are dirty and I have nothing to wear,&quot; she said but added that she and her family were relatively lucky. &quot;Anyone who doesn&#39;t have money is left there under threat of mortars and gunfire,&quot; she said. Special forces units, backed by American advisers and air strikes, have been battling to drive Taliban fighters from the city which the insurgents entered unexpectedly at the start of the week, and fighting continues in many areas. Following widespread reports of security forces abandoning their positions, poor coordination and rivalries among commanders, there has been heavy criticism that the government failed to learn from last year, when the Taliban seized and held the city for two weeks before pulling out. &quot;Even as the security situation got bad, we didn&#39;t believe Kunduz would collapse,&quot; said Shogofa Bahar, a medical assistant who fled the city for Kabul this week. &quot;But the situation got worse and worse.&quot; &nbsp; GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;