Once again the obsession with impeaching governors has erupted, this time in Nairobi City County. Coming so soon after Nyeri Governor Nderitu Gachagua survived a spirited attempt to remove him from office, it wouldn&rsquo;t be far-fetched to predict that as the 2017 elections draw nearer, more governors will be kept on&nbsp; tenterhooks by their legislative assemblies. After the failed first attempt to table a motion calling for the removal of Evans Kidero as the governor of Nairobi, Viwandani ward representative Samuel Nyang&rsquo;wara finally had his way. Mr Nyang&rsquo;wara was elected on an Orange Democratic Movement party ticket but has since shifted allegiance to the newly launched Jubilee Party. Article 181 of the Constitution provides grounds on which a governor may be removed from office, and the power to initiate the process is vested in MCAs. The grounds include gross violation of the Constitution or any other written law, abuse of office and gross misconduct. READ MORE Chaos as motion to kick out Governor Kidero is tabled Chaos mars bid to remove Kidero Murang'a MCAs &lsquo;regret&rsquo; taking part in plotting impeaching governor Mwangi wa Iria MCAs can also initiate impeachment proceedings against a governor if there are serious reasons to believe that he or she has committed a crime under national or international law or has become physically or mentally incapable of performing the functions of the office of governor. But it is Section 33 of the County Government Act 2012 that fleshes out the finer nuances of county governance and that provides in greater detail how the impeachment process should be undertaken. It stipulates that a Member of the County Assembly may table a motion calling for the impeachment of a governor after getting the support of one-third of all members to initiate the process. If the motion receives the support of at least two-thirds of all members of the assembly, the speaker of the county assembly shall inform the speaker of the Senate of that resolution within two days. Once the speaker of the Senate receives the resolution, the he or she is required to convene a sitting of the Senate within seven days to hear the charges levelled against the governor, and by a resolution of the Senate form a special committee of 11 members to investigate the matter. All this while, the governor continues to perform the functions of the office pending the outcome of Senate proceedings. Put differently, the powers to impeach a governor are shared between the county assembly, the Senate, the head of state and the people, and are not the preserve of MCAs as they often seem to think. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;