Buoyed by warm reception of his Maendeleo&nbsp;Chap&nbsp;Chap&nbsp;movement, Machakos Governor Dr Alfred Mutua is now vowing to&nbsp;field&nbsp;&ldquo;Chap&nbsp;Chap&rdquo; candidates across the country in the 2017 elections. Mutua has confirmed that MCC will approach 2017 as a political vehicle and that there is a snowball in hell&rsquo;s chance of him trooping back to Wiper Democratic Movement. In an interview with The Standard on Saturday over a wide range of issues, Mutua said the only race MCC will not have a candidate in 2017 polls is the presidential race. He said his movement is neither Jubilee nor CORD but will identify a credible, development-conscious presidential candidate to support in the election. He however said so far, President Uhuru Kenyatta presents the only credible choice. &ldquo;For us, time is out of joint. We have rolled our sleeves and we are not even waiting for 2017. We cannot play games any longer. We are giving notice in good time to conservative politicians. With MCC on the cards, they are living on borrowed time,&rdquo; Mutua said. He said MCC&rsquo;s strategy is to change the order of doing politics in the country from &ldquo;top to bottom&rdquo; into &ldquo;bottom to top&rdquo; approach. In the process, he alluded to a bigger role for MCC in 2022 elections. READ MORE Ouko team says August elections will affect budgeting Jubilee starts talks to unite gubernatorial aspirants Mudavadi party wins from Jubilee Party fallout &ldquo;If you are a player and you have never scored in the local league despite the many years you have played, how can we trust you to score for us in the national league? And so for us, with what we are doing and with the support of the people, we are looking at a bright future,&rdquo; he said. From his recent tours selling &ldquo;chap&nbsp;chap&rdquo; in various parts of the country, Mutua says there is palpable sense of desperation among Kenyans. They are tired of rhetoric, empty promises, delayed opportunities and false hopes. He said MCC&rsquo;s strategy is to focus on quick-wins, the basics. He said it is possible to realise the basic needs of the residents with prudent management of resources, striking the correct work ethics and focusing on greater good for the greatest majority. &ldquo;The biggest sign of corruption is lack of development. Conversely, most developed areas have zero tolerance for corruption. We have managed to do so much in our county because we are exploiting every coin to the maximum and we are not suffering fools gladly,&rdquo; he said. He claimed he was being pursued by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) for saving Machakos residents and Kenyans millions of shillings. He also claimed that this is what afflicts those who cannot wait to help the common man. &ldquo;The Kenyan system is not ready for true servant leadership. And that&rsquo;s why they are coming after me. They are forgetting the horse has already bolted and that our people cannot wait any longer. Time is out of joint,&rdquo; he reiterated. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;