A judicial inquest into the death of University of Nairobi student Mercy Keino has raised more questions than answers since no one has been found culpable for her death on June 17, 2011. What happened is still a mystery at whose centre was Kiambu Governor William Kabogo who testified in the inquest as one of the people who attended a party where she was last seen alive. Yesterday, Mercy&rsquo;s distraught father &mdash; Joseph Keino &mdash; spoke to The Standard on Saturday after the ruling which spells the end of his quest to seek justice for his first child. &ldquo;I am still trying to get access the full judgement so that I can assess all the details and comment on it in a comprehensive manner,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I am in a meeting and I ask for more time to allow us to comprehend the new development.&rdquo; In an earlier interview, the family had said they pegged their hopes on the investigation. &ldquo;Even though I hope we will finally get justice for Mercy, I am not putting so much hope in the inquest because suppose I place all my hope that at the end of it, the truth would emerge but it doesn&rsquo;t, it would be a huge disappointment,&rdquo; Keino had said -- and it seems that is exactly what has happened. READ MORE Kiambu Governor William Kabogo cleared in Mercy Keino murder case Meru man who killed drunk wife sentenced to hang Two convicts set free from life jail terms in defilement cases for lack of evidence Thorough investigations Yesterday, the inquest returned what will be a devastating verdict for Mercy&rsquo;s family. &ldquo;It is clear that the adversely mentioned parties had no motive to harm the deceased. It has been disclosed by the evidence on record that the adversely mentioned parties cannot be held liable or linked to the death of the deceased,&rdquo; read Principal Magistrate Peter Ndwiga at Kehancha Law Courts in Kuria West in Migori County. The university student died under unclear circumstances and that is why there were suspicions that she was murdered. Her body was found by passers-by lying on the left lane of Waiyaki Way about 100 metres from the St Mark&rsquo;s Church in Westlands, Nairobi. Her death was subsequently reported at Divisional Traffic Police Office Parklands Police Station as a traffic offence/fatal road accident. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;