A detective dusts through the Kenya News Agency offices at Prosperity Building in Kisumu town Thursday. Unknown people broke into the building, which houses county government offices on Wednesday night, and stole cash and computers. [Photo: Denish Ochieng/Standard] At least five Administration Police (AP) officers are being investigated over a mysterious theft at the Kisumu County headquarters on Wednesday night.&nbsp; Another non-commission officer, who supervises security operations at the premises, has also recorded a statement over the incident. Unknown people gained access into the highly guarded building on Wednesday night, broke into the Immigration and Ministry of Information offices and made away with five computers, an audio recorder and Sh36,000. According to County Commissioner Maalim Mohamed, the AP officers who were on duty have recorded statements. The building also hosts Governor Jack Ranguma&#39;s office, the county Huduma Centre, the County Commissioner&#39;s office and that of the East Africa Commission, among others. The premise is adjacent to Central Bank of Kenya building, which is usually under tight 24-hour security. READ MORE ODM to give cash rewards to registered party members Kisumu tops other counties in World Bank business rating Kisumu has best business environment in western Kenya, World Bank report Security lapse Mr Maalim Thursday confirmed that no arrest had been made yet, but said investigations to find out whether the theft was due to security lapse or an inside job had begun. &quot;We do not want to pre-empt anything, but the officers who were on duty have to give us their accounts because this premises is under 24-hour security watch,&quot; he said. According to County Immigration Officer Peter Karoki, three offices within the department were broken into. At the Accounting and Finance office, two new CPUs were stolen together with Sh36,000, which he said had been contributed by members of staff towards the funeral of one of their colleagues whose burial is set for Saturday. At the investigation and prosecution office, two personal laptops belonging to members of staff were stolen, with the suspects having ransacked drawers. Several cabinets containing important immigration documents were also broken into. The thieves, however, did not find any valuables. &quot;They broke the cabinet but there was nothing. We believe they were just targeting computers. We do not handle cash, hence there was no money in the offices except the little we had contributed for our fallen colleague,&quot; said Mr Karoki. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;