A forensic audit has revealed that national&nbsp;carrier, Kenya Airways (KQ), lost at least Sh2.2 billion in six months in what appears to be a well-orchestrated scheme of incorrect billing and allowance of excess baggage. According to the audit by Deloitte, the loss was choreographed in at least 16 KQ stations across the globe. The money was lost between February and August this year. The airline has been making losses amounting to billions of shillings in recent years, with the Kenyan taxpayer being forced to dig deeper into their pockets to help the airline remain afloat. The auditor&rsquo;s finding on control of baggage at Kenya Airways is a direct indictment of the KQ management: &ldquo;Due to these irregularities&rdquo;, said the auditor, &lsquo;KQ has suffered losses.&rdquo; Deloitte went on to say that some of the highest losses suffered are attributable to possible collusion, fraud, corruption and negligence by the airline&rsquo;s management. At least Sh1.6 billion was lost through incorrect billing of baggage, while an extra Sh500 million loss was incurred through irregular allowance of excess baggage. The audit zeroed in on 16 station managers where the leakage was heavy. It names Chi Hung Gary Park (Station Manager Ground Services, Kenya Airways - Hong Kong), Cynthia Fafa Dzansi (Accra), Dennis Monari Onkoba (Dubai), Fred Minier (Paris), Jack Bahati (Kinshasa), Jose Veldhuizen (Amsterdam), Julia Adams (London), Neeru Pandey (Mumbai), Nkamunu Olemepukori (Johannesburg ), Patrick Mulei (Head of Passenger Services - Nairobi until October 2015). READ MORE National carrier lost Sh60b in under-priced ticketing How loss-making KQ paid firm Sh2.3b in six months Safari Sevens got big payments without contract-Audit Others are Philip Kimutai Kandie (Bangkok), Roland Njuma Okon (Doula), Tom Ogendo (Head of Passenger Services, - Nairobi as from November 1, 2015 to date), Trung Kien Dang (Hanoi), Vincent Odhiambo Ongas (Guangzhou) and Zubeidah Mwemba Ramadhani (Free Town). The most affected routes include Dubai-Nairobi, Nairobi-Congo, Guangzhou-Nairobi and Hong Kong-Nairobi. The Dubai-Nairobi route is the top loss making route for both billing irregularities identified during the investigations. Dubai is a major exporter of textile to Kenya. Weak controls According to the report, there are numerous instances where excess baggage was billed at costs lower than the approved rates while in other cases, established baggage structure was completely ignored. &ldquo;We determined that KQ has been losing revenue due to irregular waivers of excess baggage (EB). We further determined that waivers are raised at the discretion of the check-in staff without properly documenting the waiver and/or proper authorisation/approval by station managers,&rdquo; reads part of the report. &ldquo;We established that the controls with regard to EB are either weak or non-existent. EB irregularities are undetected resulting in the losses reflected above. We further determined that for the period under our review, for instance, only one instance relating to EB irregularities had been reported and investigated in the NBO station while our analysis reflected that there may have been numerous instances that went undetected,&rdquo; the report further reads. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;