Kenyans are rightfully proud the country has hosted key meetings of global significance. They range from Obama&rsquo;s Global Entrepreneurship Summit to the recently concluded Africa Green Revolution Forum. Meetings of such magnitude undoubtedly leave unmatched short-term economic footprints. As the head of a firm involved in organising the recent TICAD meeting that brought together Japanese leaders, African leaders and private sector players, I know firsthand how these meetings inject the much needed cash into our economy. What is uncertain is how ordinary Kenyans who don&rsquo;t make it to the meetings can also be primary beneficiaries of the ambitious declarations that touch on them. For instance, here are some of the Africa Green Revolution Forum resolutions: USD30 billion was pledged to support smallholder farmers and local African agribusinesses; Kenya reiterated its commitment to the Maputo declaration which calls on African countries to invest 10 per cent of national budgets to Agriculture; Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa revealed its plans to invest $500 million over five years to help agricultural companies and governments in Africa to produce drought tolerant, high yield seeds; KCB Group also revealed its plan to avail $350 million in loans for agriculture. All these resolutions from such meetings are commendable. What both the decision makers and ordinary Kenyans habitually forget is that the conclusion of a key historic event is but the beginning of the real work. Implementation of resolutions is a lot more difficult and challenging than formulation of those resolutions. However, anyone who has ever participated in crafting resolutions will tell you it may take a few minutes to read them but it takes a longer time and labour to put them together. Before a figure like USD30 billion was pledged for African agribusinesses, there were people who worked like crazy behind the scenes to justify that figure and ensure it wasn&rsquo;t just hot air. If this much work goes into crafting of resolutions, we need to roll up our sleeves and invest a lot more time and energy towards implementation. The hard reality is that people that are directly affected by resolutions must ensure implementation. In a sense, resolutions plant the seed of progress and development in our wombs, but we must do that difficult and ultimately fulfilling job of birthing the baby. As concerns the Africa Green Revolution Forum resolutions mentioned here, Kenyan farmers and agribusinesses must ensure that they organise themselves into co-operatives or entities that will channel their energy towards accessing resources without which their agribusinesses will continue to suffer. We cannot afford to wait for somebody somewhere to do this birthing for us. Think green, act green!