Trans Nzoia County Government&#39;s bid to purchase a health facility from a private developer has suffered a major setback. This is after the High Court dismissed the county government&#39;s petition challenging an adverse judgement on the procurement of the multi-million-shilling facility, which was to be turned into a referral hospital. Judge Hillary Chemitei ordered the county government to terminate the purchase of the property for Sh185 million after two residents moved to court to contest the procurement. Timothy Otuya Afubwa and Fred Maruti had moved to court seeking the nullification of the purchase of the private property, alleging the transaction was unlawful, fraudulent and not transparent. Judge Chemitei ruled that the purchase of the property within Kitale municipality from three businessmen was null and void and ordered that it be cancelled. &quot;There is nothing exhibited by the county government or other respondents for that matter indicating that there was such public participation,&quot; ruled the judge. READ MORE JSC retreats to name new deputy Chief Justice KAA boss gets job back pending outcome of case Nairobi court rejects man's appeal in rape case He ordered that any money paid by the county government to Messrs&nbsp; Ratilal Gosar Dohia, Vipul Ratilal and Avir Kanti Shah be refunded unconditionally. The county government had already used Sh200 million to renovate the rundown facility on top of the Sh185 million purchase price. The petitioners alleged that the county government acquired the property at an inflated price of Sh185 million last year, just months after the three respondents had acquired it from one Benjamin Oonge at just Sh26 million. The petitioners argued the cost was extremely high, considering the period between the two sales of the same property. The petitioners in their supporting documents attached a valuation report from the Ministry of Lands, which showed that as at October 3, 2014, the property was valued at Sh165 million. They argued that the valuation was astronomical given that the facility was not fully developed.