Anxiety has gripped politicians in Rift Valley eyeing the Jubilee Party ticket. Their fears are founded on claims that the party leadership has already drawn a list of preferred candidates for various elective seats in the next general election. President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto have publicly stated that the new party will not condone the culture of preferred candidates and/or direct nominations. The latest round of deep suspicion and bitter competition pits elected leaders against aspirants &mdash; divisions that threaten party unity. The Jubilee leadership has proposed holding primaries three months before the August 8, 2017 General Election. The aim is to provide sufficient time for healing and reconciliation as party insiders say priority is being given to assuring all aspirants that the process would be free and fair. But Kanu Chairman Gideon Moi on Friday said credible sources within Jubilee had confided in him that already, a list of preferred candidates has been drawn up ahead of the nominations. &ldquo;I feel sorry for political aspirants for various seats who are dreaming of clinching the Jubilee Party ticket. My highly-placed friends in the party have been coming to me secretly to tell me the party&rsquo;s top secrets. They confided in me that the new party has already prepared the list of their preferred candidates,&rdquo; the Baringo Senator said. His sentiments lend credence to utterances by Energy Cabinet Secretary Charles Keter, a&nbsp; confidante of Deputy President William Ruto, who has on more than one occasion declared that he would determine the next Kericho governor in next year&rsquo;s General Election. READ MORE Death of patient in Nakuru blamed on nurse's lack of co-operation Parties merger a tricky affair in the Rift Valley Jubilee merger a tricky affair in the Rift Valley Keter&rsquo;s gubernatorial project is believed to be former National Social Security Fund (NSSF) Managing Trustee Richard Langat, who recently secured a handsome send-off package from NSSF. Emurua-Dikir MP Johana Ng&rsquo;eno cited himself as a living example of how rigging could backfire on Jubilee. &ldquo;In 2012, I was rigged out of my victory in the United Republican Party (URP) nomination exercise and I joined Kenya National Congress Party. I emerged victorious. The same thing will happen if parties will have preferred candidates. The people will vote for the leaders they want,&rdquo; said Ng&rsquo;eno. The fiery MP said political parties are like donkeys used to deliver goods as no one cares much about the animals afterwards. Moi explained that the independence party had rejected an invitation to join JP after realising that the party would not practice internal party democracy. &ldquo;Kanu is ready to field candidates for various seats across the country and that is why there is no reason at all to join Jubilee Party. The new party will not practice internal democracy,&rdquo; Moi said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;