A 57-year-old traffic officer has pleaded with the National Police Service Commission (NPSC) to consider promoting him before he attains the mandatory retirement age of 60 years. Joseph Gichuru, a police constable based at Kericho traffic base, said promotion would help him retire in peace after serving for a long time. Mr Gichuru said he had been yearning for promotion since he joined the service three decades ago but this had not happened despite him being a dedicated and disciplined officer. &quot;I have worked for many years stagnated in the same position. I would like to return home even as a corporal. I have even seen my children join the service and get promoted,&quot; he said. Gichuru said he had also been in charge of operations and restoring order in various parts of the country that saw him be recommended for promotion that has not been forthcoming. He informed chairman Johnstone Kavuludi and his panel that in 2012, he was recommended for promotion but was never promoted and did not receive a clear reason. Colleagues who were recommended for promotion at the same time progressed, leaving him feeling demoralised. Mr Kavuludi assured him that the commission would look into the matter. READ MORE NOWHERE TO HIDE: NPSC says emabttle Soi no longer in National Police Service Policewoman branded arrogant for casually greeting vetting panel Kavuludi shocked by officers' ignorance &quot;We shall find out what happened with your promotion recommendations and get back to you soon,&quot; said Kavuludi. FURTHER STUDIES Gichuru, who has a Kenya Junior of Secondary Education certificate, said it was unfortunate that a tight work schedule did not allow him to enroll for further studies. Another officer, Titus Mwene Etyang&#39;a, asked the commission to look into the promotion of officers in the service. He said it was unfortunate that the majority of officers had stagnated in the same positions, which demoralises them and affected their performance. &quot;I am very grateful to meet the panel. I look forward to getting a top job,&quot; he said. The constable has a diploma in criminology and is currently studying for a degree in security management. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;