There are those who have interpreted Governor Salim Mvurya&rsquo;s dalliance with Jubilee as a signal that he may ditch the ODM party. Even though he has not come out to declare any intentions to decamp to Jubilee, his statements when President Uhuru Kenyatta visited have been interpreted by some to mean he will leave ODM. Changamwe MP Omar Mwinyi said Mr Mvurya has been difficult to understand and should be given time to clear the air about whether he is still in ODM or he has moved to Jubilee. Mr Mwinyi said going by Mvurya&rsquo;s statements, it was not clear if he spoke just to please the President and his deputy William Ruto. &ldquo;The governor has been giving mixed signals and his body language has also been unclear. But what we should know is that the people on the ground have not shifted with him. They will decide which direction the politics of this county will take,&rdquo; Mwinyi warned. Should he join Jubilee, Mvurya will fight it out with former Matuga MP Chirau Ali Mwakwere for the party ticket. Mr Mwakwere, who&nbsp;is Kenya&rsquo;s High Commissioner to Tanzania and a former Cabinet minister, has announced he will contest Kwale&rsquo;s governor&rsquo;s seat next year. But ODM leaders insist only Kwale residents can decide who will be their next governor. Mombasa Woman Representative Mishi Mboko said if he leaves, Mvurya would not leave a gap in ODM because he had not actively participated in the affairs of the party. READ MORE 35 MPs and five governors to dump Opposition for new Jubilee outfit Elder Nyachae breaks silence on Kisii politics &lsquo;Back me to kick out UhuRuto,&rsquo; Raila asks Western Ms Mboko said the governor had skipped several party activities including the Malindi by-election in March. &ldquo;We in ODM believe choosing a political party is part of democracy and Mvurya is within his right to do so. But he will not leave any gap in ODM because he has not participated or contributed to party activities for a long time. Raila Odinga&rsquo;s team is not shaken because there are many people scrambling for the ODM ticket in Kwale,&rdquo; Mboko said. An ODM political strategist has disclosed that the party may front Issah Chipera, country director of Plan International in Uganda. Dr Chipera has served in similar positions in Ethiopia and Zambia. Analysts have also warned that Mvurya might as well bid the seat farewell if he decamps. But speaking exclusively to The Standard on the matter for the first time, Deputy Governor Fatuma Achani, a close ally of Mvurya, accused ODM of isolating the governor. &ldquo;Any time the Opposition leader has toured Kwale, there has been drama. In ODM, everyone is superior, with many factions that have been abusing the governor. You can be patient but when you are tired, it is good to go somewhere that is safe and peaceful,&rdquo; said Ms Achani. She added that Jubilee had gained ground in the county and would be voted for by the governor&rsquo;s supporters next year. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;