Deputy President William Ruto continued to splash huge amounts of money in harambees in Western as he popularised Jubilee Party in ODM strongholds. The Standard on Sunday established that DP Ruto donated Sh18 million to six schools in just two days. The Deputy President was the chief guest in harambees in four schools in Kakamega and Bungoma counties yesterday where he made impressive contributions. On Friday, he presided over fundraisers in two schools in Kisii and Vihiga counties. In the four schools yesterday, he contributed Sh11 million. On Friday, he contributed Sh7 million. Yesterday&rsquo;s first harambee was at St Peter&rsquo;s Machine Secondary School in Likuyani Constituency in Kakamega where the Deputy President donated Sh3 million for the construction of a dining hall. &ldquo;Jubilee government values education and will ensure every Kenyan child gets quality education. Today, President Uhuru Kenyatta and I give Sh3 million towards the construction of the dining hall here,&rsquo;&rsquo; Ruto said. READ MORE Apologise now or else..., DP Ruto tells activist DP Ruto cites development record to woo US investors Kiraitu raises the red fl ag over chaos in Jubilee turfs The Deputy President later headed to Tongaren Mixed Secondary School in Bungoma County where he donated Sh2 million for the purchase of school land. He pledged an additional Sh3 million for construction of an administration block and classrooms in the same school. In Tongaren Constituency, Ruto was accompanied by Governor Ken Lusaka and MPs Reginalda Wanyonyi (Bungoma Women Representative), Ayub Savula (Lugari), John Waluke (Sirisia) and Eseli Simiyu (host) and former Kwanza MP Noah Wekesa. Dr Simiyu declined to address the gathering only saying he does not belong to Jubilee coalition but he supports development. The third function was at Sinoko Secondary School in Webuye East represented by Alfred Sambu, who is allied to ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi. Sambu did not attend the function. DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS At Sinoko, Ruto donated Sh3 million towards the construction of new classrooms. The current classrooms are in a deplorable state. &ldquo;We must build friendships and as your closest neighbour, when called upon to support schools, I will not hesitate to help. Here at Sinoko, the President and I contributed Sh3million so that these classrooms can be upgraded to good standards,&rsquo;&rsquo; he said. Lusaka gave Sh100, 000 to Sinoko, Savula Sh30, 000, Dr Wanyonyi and Waluke each gave Sh20, 000. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;