NAIROBI: Questions on how the Sh250 billion Eurobond proceeds were used have resurfaced. Conflicting reports from the Auditor General and the Controller of Budgets offices only succeed in muddying the waters. When two government institutions with an oversight role and whose operations should be synchronised draw different conclusions on the same issue, the tendency would be to draw more curiosity and attention to the matter. Clearly, one of these institutions is being economical with the truth. The Controller of Budget has disputed reports by the Auditor General that Sh215 billion of the Eurobond money cannot be accounted for. Agnes Odhiambo&#39;s contention is that all the money was accounted for because Sh88 billion of the supposed missing funds were transferred to the National Exchequer in June 2014 while Sh73 billion can be accounted for in the 2014/2015 financial year. This claim is in turn denounced by the Auditor General Edward Ouko who argues there is no proof of receipt or expenditure of the money under question. Mr Ouko cites the Ministry of Water as an example of a ministry which is said to have received Sh11.2 billion yet there is no documentary proof of usage. Ministries are yet to produce a list of projects funded by the Eurobond money. The hard questions must be asked; on what did the two offices base their findings? Can the different reports denote a sleight of hand in accounting; hence the possibility of the existence of a set of two separate accounting documents? When Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich appeared before Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission late last year, he did not have the answers and instead ordered ministries to avail responses within three weeks. There was a discrepancy on the Ministry of Finances&rsquo; website last year showing Sh35 billion was used in the 2013/2014 period yet the actual breakdown amounted to Sh25 billion. The public is entitled to the honest truth regarding this money. READ MORE No Eurobond money was lost, insists Controller of Budget Agnes Odhiambo Auditor General queries payout to IEBC suppliers Audit: Sh215b Eurobond cash unaccounted for