Nyatike elders have denied&nbsp;endorsing&nbsp;Migori Governor Okoth Obado for a second term in office. This comes a few weeks after an aspirant Anne Anyanga and Obado separately got the elders&rsquo; nod to run in the 2017 race. Luo Council of Elders Nyatike branch chairman Oloo Ongungo said he has been unfairly accused of preferring Obado because he graced his coronation and led the ceremony, while he snubbed that of Mrs Anyanga the previous day. Ongungo and his office were accused of fuelling division by taking sides. They were accused of chosing an outsider &mdash; Obado who comes from Kanyamkago in Uriri &mdash; over Mrs Anyanga who is married in Nyatike. Mrs Anyanga is the wife of Nyatike MP Omondi Anyanga. &ldquo;I would like to make it clear that&nbsp;we&nbsp;welcome all governor aspirants and as Nyatike elders,&nbsp;we&nbsp;have not&nbsp;endorsed&nbsp;anyone. I publicly apologise and on, behalf of other elders, state that&nbsp;weare not partisan,&rdquo; Ongugo said mid last week during a political meeting. READ MORE Jubilee headache as more hopefuls roll up sleeves to unseat Mbugua Mudavadi says he is ready for CORD deal Kilifi County signs investment deals worth Sh300b Prepared for ceremony The elder said Obado had reached out to him prior and he had prepared for the governor&rsquo;s ceremony, while Anyanga&rsquo;s was an impromptu event. With Nyatike being an area where Luo elders play a significant role in persuading voters, it is little wonder that their blessings are sought by those aspiring for elective positions. Nyatike is the biggest constituency in Migori County and is said to be the area that decides who carries the day in the county&rsquo;s elective politics, that is aspirants are scrambling for its votes. Allegations are rife that the elders are being given bribes to&nbsp;endorse&nbsp;or support certain aspirants in Nyatike and neighbouring areas. Ongungo, however, maintained that they are peacemakers who have the interests of the people at heart and they will work with all leaders in the county. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;