the last entity to give its names, nominating lawyers Evans Monari and Mary Caren Kigen-Sorobit to the panel. The two joined Ogla Karani and Justice Tom Mbaluto who were last week nominated by the Opposition Coalition for Reforms and Democracy (CORD). &quot;On behalf of the Jubilee coalition, this is to submit the two names of our proposed nominees for appointment into the selection panel contemplated under the IEBC Act,&quot; read a letter written by the coalition and addressed to the Senate Clerk Jeremiah Nyegenye, who is also the Secretary of the Parliamentary Service Commission (PSC). Those earlier nominated by the religious bodies are the Rev Canon Peter Karanja (National Council of Churches of Kenya General, Prof Abdulghafur El-Busaidy (Supreme Council of Kenyan Muslims), and Bernadette Musundi (Catholic Church). Others are Bishop David Oginde of Christ Is The Answer Ministries who is representing the Evangelical Churches of Kenya and Ravindra Bhurma for the Hindu Council of Kenya. PSC will submit the names to the President, setting in motion the recruitment exercise. READ MORE IEBC commissioners issue resignation notice to President Uhuru Raila&rsquo;s call to arms over IEBC uncalled for Aden Duale says IEBC reforms on course Both Monari and Kigen are advocates of the High Court. Monari represented former Police Commissioner Mohammed Hussein Ali at the International Criminal Court (ICC) in his crime against humanity case following the 2007/2008 post-election violence. Karani is currently the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) secretary for international affairs, while Justice Mbaluto is a former High Court judge. The PSC received the complete list just 24 hours after the current commissioners submitted their notices of resignation, ending months of political pressure that they leave office. Yesterday, the president&#39;s Chief of Staff Joseph Kinyua announced that the Chairperson and Commissioners of the IEBC have tendered their written notices of resignation to President Uhuru Kenyatta. He reiterated the Government&#39;s &quot;unwavering commitment to pursuing a seamless and lawful transition within the IEBC and to having the 8th August 2017 general election proceed on schedule.&quot; The Standard, however, learnt that in their notices of resignation, the commissioners had indicated that they will vacate office upon the swearing in of new commissioners as the law does not anticipate a vacuum in the electoral commission. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;