The standoff between Kenya Broadcasting Corporation and Mombasa County government on Friday escalated when both filed rival suit over the disputed plot 22 acre plot at Kisauni in Mombasa county. KBC Managing Director Waithaka Waihenya met Mombasa Governor Hassan Ali Joho at his office on Wednesday and&nbsp;reportedly agreed to a truce in the plot saga filed but yesterday the corporation filed contempt proceedings against the governor seeking to jail him for stopping the construction of the wall around the property, allegedly, against a High court order. But the county government countered immediately claiming the alleged court order has been suspended by the Court of Appeal. The county government, KBC and a third party claim the property as their own and the dispute has raged in courts since 2010. The crisis erupted last week when KBC tried to erect the wall that was promptly pulled&nbsp;down. Coast Regional coordinator Nelson Marwa sided with KBC&#39;s claim and threatened to have Joho arrested but the Joho administration countered that they would also apply for Marwa to be jailed for promoting misrule and abuse of law. County askaris destroyed the wall claiming they had a court order allowing them to do so but the county administration countered that besides the property being contested in court, the state broadcast had not received its authority to erect the structure. And the Joho government also said that KBC owes it Sh804 million in unpaid land rates. READ MORE Kenya's leaders should avoid public spats Former VP sheds light on Sh8b Karen land deal Raila dares Uhuru to end injustices KBC&#39;s lawyer Protus Saende told Justice Anne Omolo that his application was extremely urgent and wanted it to be heard exparte so that Mombasa governor can be cited for contempt. &quot;We want Mombasa governor Hassan Ali Joho, County Secretary Francis Thoya and County Land Executive Antony Njaramba to be committed to jail for will fully and deliberate disobeying order of Justice Omolo on April 27 this year,&quot;said Saende. However in another move Mombasa County &#39;s lawyer Lucy Momanyi told Justice Omolo that her client want the orders which was extracted to allow KBC to proceed with the construction of the wall be vacated. Momanyi in her application filed yesterday insists Joho did not trespass [on the] KBC plot as was being claimed arguing the order made on April 27 this year and issued on May 12 2016 should be suspended until the suit they have filed is heard and determined. &quot;We want the order made on April 27 this year and issued on May 12 this year [to be] stayed pending the hearing of this application,&quot; said Momanyi who also argued that the county government appealed this order in the Court of Appeal and obtained a stay. The lawyer also accused KBC of using the order to put a perimeter wall without getting a permission from the county government as stipulated in the physical planning law. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;