President Uhuru Kenyatta gave an MP a dressing down on Saturday for raising a matter in public rather than in State House. Msambweni MP Suleiman Dori claimed the Jubilee administration had given land under dispute to a private developer. He said the residents expected the President to solve their land problems. Mr Dori was the only Opposition MP attending a rally dominated by Jubilee leaders and pro-establishment Opposition legislators. When Uhuru stood to speak, it was clear that he was irked by Dori&#39;s challenge. He wondered why the legislator had raised the matter in public and not in State House. The President accused Dori of disrespecting him, adding that the MP had taken a cue from Opposition leaders. &quot;The biggest problem in Msambweni is land and many people are wondering why as leaders we have not solved it but we know that you as the President will solve this matter. Your Government gave land in Vidzyani and Vumbu to an investor and we are urging you to solve the problem. It is the same with Gasi and Magaoni,&quot; said Dori. The MP said locals do not consider him an enemy and believed he should solve all problems regardless of whether the area was considered a CORD stronghold or not. &quot;First of all politics does not have permanent enemies or friends and whether you like it or not, you are the President,&quot; he said. READ MORE Sabaot Iron lady takes final bow after long political career But Uhuru claimed Dori had borrowed a leaf from his Opposition colleagues in disrespecting him. &quot;Vile nimeambia Mwahima ndio nataka kukuambia wewe Dori, hakuna haja ya kusimama mbele ya microphone na kuambia au kusomea rais&quot; (I will tell you [Dori] the same thing I have told [Likono MP Masoud] Mwahima - there is no need to stand there and lecture me),&quot; said Uhuru, adding that Dori should meet him in State House if he wanted to discuss land matters. The President claimed that the Waitiki land crisis in Likoni, Mombasa, was solved when he met Mwahima in State House. &quot;We were elected to come and solve your problems,&quot; he said.