Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi wants the national government to halt the Northern Collector Tunnel project in Murang&rsquo;a County until counties at the Coast are consulted. Yesterday, the governor demanded an audit of all environmental concerns raised as well as a proper impact assessment on how the project will affect water volumes of the Tana River. He also called for public participation for the affected counties. &ldquo;Kilifi County relies heavily on the Tana River basin and once the basin is interfered with, it will affect quite a number of people. Yes, it may be undertaken in Murang&rsquo;a County but the ripples will be felt are far and wide,&rdquo; said Mr Kingi. The Sh6.8 billion water project has raised concern after CORD leader Raila Odinga warned that it was capable of turning parts of Garissa, Ukambani, Murang&rsquo;a and the Coast into a desert in five years. The rivers affected in the project are tributaries of the Tana River, raising fears that the project could divert the water upstream and cause a disaster. Kingi also said the project might be a recipe for conflict between pastoralists living in the delta and farmers in Kilifi. Earlier on, the governor had hosted donor partners in his office, including officials from the Kenya Red Cross, World Vision, World Food Programe and International Fund for Agricultural Development, where they deliberated on how to mitigate the hunger crisis in the county. Elsewhere, the Central Organisation of Trade Unions Secretary General Francis Atwoli has asked President Uhuru Kenyatta not to dismiss Raila for criticising the water project. READ MORE Murang&rsquo;a Senator Kembi Gitura wants water project stopped You will regret for ignoring Raila&rsquo;s remarks, Atwoli warns Jubilee Pressure piles on President Uhuru over project Speaking at a fundraiser in Homa Bay County Atwoli said, &ldquo;Murang&rsquo;a leaders must pay attention to what Raila is saying. Raila is not interested in anything in Murang&rsquo;a hence local leaders should view him as one whose words may help them,&rdquo; he added. (See photo on Page 10). - Additional reporting by James Omoro