ODM is conducting a door-to-door campaign as it hopes to recapture the Musiro Ward seat in Kajiado County during the October 26 by-election. Party officials and supporters are moving around urging locals to support their candidate, 24-year-old Peter Tireshe. The seat fell vacant in April following the death of Peter Korinyo of ODM, one of the party&#39;s only two MCAs. Jubilee has 23 elected MCAs. Both ODM and Jubilee have vowed to give each other a run for their money even as campaigns for the seat continue to gain momentum. The ODM team, led by Governor David Nkedianye, has vowed to hand Jubilee a humiliating defeat, similar to what happened during the Kajiado Central parliamentary by-election after Joseph Nkaissery was appointed Interior Cabinet Secretary. Elijah Memusi garnered 16,008 votes to trounce the Jubilee Alliance Party&#39;s (JAP) Patrick Tutui, who came second with 15,508 votes. An independent candidate, Kuntai Nkashuma, was a distant third with 100 votes. READ MORE Kalonzo allies fight back over call to dissolve Wiper Party Mudavadi party wins from Jubilee Party fallout Storm after CORD claims Jubilee secretly registering voters &quot;We floored them in Kajiado Central despite the fact they used millions of shillings, backed by the Government machinery, and we will do it again in Musiro,&quot; Nkedianye said as they intensified their campaigns. The governor accused Jubilee of intimidating their supporters and engaging in propaganda but said they are undeterred and remain steadfast in their quest to retain the seat. &quot;No amount of intimidation or the bags of money Jubilee is planning to bring here to bribe voters will move us. We will unleash the same strategy we used in the Kajiado Central by-election. We are not interested in their sideshows,&quot; said Nkedianye. He urged their opponents to engage in peaceful campaigns, accusing them of inciting locals. This followed an incident three days ago when he was forced to cut short his speech after he was heckled during an event. &quot;Heckling and incitement will not bring votes to any party. That is why I am calling on our opponents to conduct themselves with decorum and stop incitement for their own selfish gains,&quot; said Nkedianye. However, the Jubilee team, led by Kajiado West MP Moses Ole Sakuda, is counting on the development projects it says the Government has initiated in the area to deliver the seat. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;