Baringo Senator Gideon Moi has challenged leaders to put the interests of the electorate first instead of the parties they are affiliated to. Speaking at a funeral ceremony in Solian, Baringo County, the senator, who is also the Kanu chairman, said it was regrettable to see leaders concentrating on party affairs at the expense of those who gave them the mandate. He said using political nominations ahead of next year&#39;s elections to intimidate aspirants to the point of letting go of the interests of the electorate was unfortunate and regrettable. &quot;It is a fact that politicians associated with Jubilee Party have been threatened and because they are interested in flying the party&#39;s flag next year, issues touching on citizens but not approved by senior people in Government have been left unresolved,&quot; he said. Gideon told leaders, especially from the larger Rift Valley, to stop Jubilee political sycophancy, saying many people from the region had been neglected and were suffering in silence. The senator was addressing mourners at the burial of former Kenya Broadcasting Corporation director Richard Chesang. Mr Chesang died on September 6 while undergoing medical treatment. READ MORE Run on other parties or face lock out, Jubilee Party aspirants warned Big loss to newly formed Jubilee Party as MCAs join KANU Kanu allies demand Deputy President William Ruto's apology over 'insults' In a message of condolence delivered to the deceased&#39;s family by Gideon, former President Daniel arap Moi said he was saddened by the loss, adding that losing a father and a leader was a painful experience not only to the family but to society at large. He said he understood the expectations required of Chesang not only by his family but also by humanity. The 84-year-old was a close friend of the retired President and was diagnosed with diabetes in 1994. He suffered a mild stroke in 2004. Present at the burial were Baringo Governor Benjamin Cheboi, former PS for Finance Benjamin Kipkulei, former MPs Musa Sirma, Willy Kamuren, Zephaniah Chepkonga and William Boit. Others were Baringo North MP William Cheptumo, Principal Secretary Fred Sigor and Betting Control and Licensing Board chairman Simon Chelugui.