British Prime Minister Theresa May has repeatedly said &ldquo;Brexit means Brexit,&rdquo;. Now we know what that almost nonsensical phrase actually means - a tougher and much more complete extraction from the European Union than even many &ldquo;leave&rdquo; campaigners wanted. In her speech to the Conservative Party annual conference this week, May outlined a very &ldquo;hard&rdquo; Brexit, prioritising barriers on migration over retaining access to the single market. At the same time, her administration has junked much of its predecessor&rsquo;s drive to relentless austerity in the hope of retaining economic growth. The May government already bears little resemblance to that led by David Cameron and George Osborne, elected by British voters barely 16 months ago. Its mandate is a bizarre mix of the legacy of that election victory and the June 23 referendum, now tied together to justify a range of almost entirely new policies. In most countries, that would usher in a new election. What&rsquo;s happening instead in the UK, however, is a very British compromise. Having found itself in such a messy place, the electorate has little appetite to return to the polls - even if May&rsquo;s mandate for pushing through such a harsh EU exit remains limited. Not having another election until the scheduled date of 2020 may well suit both the Conservatives and main opposition Labour Party. Both have some heavy lifting to do in the four years to come, the former to deliver on the referendum outcome and the latter to shape a genuine alternative. READ MORE British PM May to trigger EU divorce process by end of March Britain's Fox says wants new Brexit WTO terms with minimal disruption Britain to enshrine all EU rules in UK law after Brexit: ITV However the relationship develops with the EU, the UK faces real and growing challenges - and it needs both major political parties to have credible, but perhaps also radical, strategies to manage it. But while May&rsquo;s conservatives are attempting to redefine relations with Europe, the Labour Party is having new thoughts and trying new directions. The era of bland technocrat rule seems to be over - at least for now. The Conservatives&rsquo; longstanding divisions over Europe are likely to be exacerbated by the current exit process. Their best case scenario is that May and her team make Brexit work and that the British people reward them with another term in office. That won&rsquo;t be easy. Negotiations with Europe will be difficult; achieving all the promises of the &ldquo;leave&rdquo; campaign all but impossible. Indeed, May&rsquo;s negotiators have made such uninspiring progress that some pundits are speculating the prime minister secretly intended the negotiations to fail so she could avoid Brexit altogether. The opposition Labour Party is even more divided. Earlier this month, embattled leader Jeremy Corbyn beat off an attempt to oust him by centrist parliamentarians and their supporters. The party must now resolve its own potentially catastrophic internal divisions to have any chance of winning the next election. Britain is a relatively conservative country, and the opinion polls suggest it will be an uphill struggle for Labour. The platform it unveiled at the end of its own conference last week needs further definition and is arguably well to the left of what the electorate might want. The party looks unlikely to win without regaining its reputation for economic competence, and a proposed 500 billion pound national investment strategy still looks ill-defined. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;