Fresh graduates of Moi University celebrate after they were awarded degrees. Over 4,500 students graduated. [Photo: Peter Ochieng/Standard] Politicians were Thursday barred from attending the 32nd Moi University graduation ceremony. The decision was reached following threats by the North Rift politicians to disrupt the event because of a row involving the appointment of Laban Ayiro as the acting vice chancellor. During the ceremony at the university&#39;s main campus in Kesses, security was heightened as police officers, some in riot gear, were stationed as far as Cheptiret trading centre, 9km away from the venue. On Tuesday, North Rift leaders including Governor Jackson Mandago and his Elgeyo Marakwet counterpart Alex Tolgos, and a host of MPs, stormed the institution protesting against Prof Ayiro&#39;s appointment. And perhaps aware of the tight security that awaited them on graduation day, the local politicians gave the ceremony a wide berth. READ MORE Opposition to Vice Chancellor in bad taste Matiang'i vows not to rescind his appointment of Moi University VC Kenyan universities have lost the edge The officers, both uniformed and plain clothes, confirmed to The Standard that they they had firm instructions not to allow any politician, into the institution unless they had someone graduating. Vehicles were not allowed into the institution and all guests were frisked at the main gate. &quot;We are under instructions not to let in any politicians,&quot; said a security officer who declined to be named. At the graduation pavilion, the ceremony was presided over by Chancellor Miriam Were, with academicians donning their ceremonial regalia and occupying the main dais. There was not a politician in sight. Prof Were asked politicians and leaders to inculcate brotherhood and invest in the development of learning institutions by encouraging ethnic cohesion among Kenyans. The chancellor said a cohesive environment created an impetus for rapid development, and asked politicians to desist from interfering with learning institutions. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;