Wiper Democratic Movement leader Kalonzo Musyoka yesterday said CORD can only defeat Jubilee in the next election if ODM leader Raila Odinga and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula sacrifice their presidential ambitions to back his bid. Kalonzo also dismissed as &ldquo;self-deceiving&rdquo; for either of the parties in CORD to break from the coalition and expect to defeat Jubilee in the next election on its own. Kalonzo reiterated that Wiper would not be dissolved or hold joint nominations for the other elective position and assured aspirants in his party that party primaries would be free and fair. He accused Jubilee of running down the tourism sector and presiding over a corrupt administration and ruining the economy, leading to a spike in prices of essential commodities. &ldquo;We must employ sacrifice as a strategy to defeat Jubilee. I sacrificed in 2002 for Kibaki and 2013 for Raila Odinga; it is time for Raila and (Moses) Wetang&rsquo;ula to do so,&rdquo; said Kalonzo. He, however, said CORD would strive to remain together, saying it was the only way to liberate the country from the yoke of corruption, inequality and tribalism &mdash; vices he claimed are being entrenched by the Jubilee regime. The Wiper leader also blamed the Jubilee administration for strained relations between Kenya and neighbouring Tanzania, which he claimed had affected the integration of East African. Kalonzo also criticised the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) commissioners for holding the country hostage&nbsp; by demanding a huge payout as a precondition to resigning. He said that the IEBC commissioners do not deserve the huge payout proposed by the government given that&nbsp; they bungled the 2013 elections. READ MORE There are no divisions in CORD, Raila Odinga says CORD retreat put o ff after Wetang&rsquo;ula, Kalonzo withdraw Raila can&rsquo;t win war on defectors &ldquo;They should quit immediately so that we prepare for a free and fair 2017 elections. Why should they be paid all that money after what they did to this country,&rdquo; he said. &nbsp;And party leaders led by Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar launched fresh attacks on Mombasa Governor Hassan Ali Joho, accusing him of failing to provide essential services to the county. &ldquo;Awiti (Hezron Awiti) and I have a plan to send this corrupt Mombasa county government home. We must cut excesses in the county and solve the problems facing our people,&rdquo; said Omar. He said CORD can only be strong if Wiper, ODM and Ford Kenya were robust, adding that the three parties must consolidate their support to defeat Jubilee. Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama said Kalonzo was the only leader who can unify the country and fight tribalism and corruption. &ldquo;Kalonzo is the only candidate in CORD that can beat Uhuru Kenyatta. We cannot afford to give Jubilee another five-year term. He supported Raila and it is time Raila supports him,&rdquo; said Muthama. Kalonzo steered clear of the Mombasa gubernatorial contest politics but called on voters to vote for Wiper candidates in Mombasa and to support his presidential bid. Wiper leaders toured Mombasa yesterday ahead of today&rsquo;s major rally at the historical Tononoka grounds in Mvita Constituency, which will be attended by 30 of Wiper&rsquo;s elected lawmakers. Kalonzo toured three constituencies in Mombasa yesterday and declared that Wiper would field candidates in all elective posts in the county but support CORD&rsquo;s presidential candidate. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;