The resignation of Funyula MP Paul Otuoma from his ODM vice-chairman&rsquo;s position kicked off a fierce battle for the governor&rsquo;s seat. Publicly, Otuoma and some western ODM leaders, including Budalang&rsquo;i MP Ababu Namwamba, who, too, quit as party secretary general, protested at the region&rsquo;s interests being taken for granted by the party leadership. But another concern that prompted Otuoma to drift away from the Orange party was his apprehension that the party leader favoured Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong and that party primaries wouldn&rsquo;t be free and fair. The race for the seat promises to be a hotly contested race between the incumbent and Otuoma.The duo are likely to square it out in the ODM primaries for the party ticket. The battle has been spiced up by the recent changes to the electoral law to block aspirants who lose out in party primaries from either defecting to another party or running as independent candidates. It means should the two go for ODM&rsquo;s ticket, then one would surely be out of the contest even before voters go to the polls to elect their governor in next year&rsquo;s General Election. READ MORE All set for Raila tour of western region ODM upbeat as Kisii faces realignments amid Jubilee forays ODM aspirants put on notice as party plans strict vetting process The changes, rammed down the throats of defiant MPs by party chiefs determined to ensure losers in party primaries do not present competition for their chosen candidate at the polls, will ensure politicians do some soul-searching before presenting themselves for nominations. It is against this backdrop that the recent endorsement of Ojaamong by Raila has thrown the spanner into the works. According to Otuoma, it was wrong for Raila to declare his support for Ojaamong, arguing it should be left to the voters to decide who becomes governor. The lawmaker says there should be a level playing ground during the party primaries for all aspirants. &ldquo;The decision to elect any governor lies with the electorate. Endorsing candidates at the moment is inconsequential because we have not even conducted nominations,&rdquo; said Otuoma. ODM commands huge support in the county and managed to capture three parliamentary seats &mdash; the governor&rsquo;s, senator&rsquo;s, woman representative&rsquo;s seats and a majority of MCA posts. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;