Timothy, then 15 years old in 2011, allegedly defiled Mercy who at the time was 11 years. The facts of the case were that on June 20, 2011, Mercy was sent by her mother to buy some chapati. On her way back, Timothy followed her, took her to a maize field and defiled her. When Mercy (not her real name) went back home, she narrated to her mother what had happened after which she was taken to hospital to be examined. The matter was then reported to police who arrested Timothy and charged him with defilement, contrary to the Sexual Offences Act, 2006. Upon hearing the case, the trial magistrate found Timothy&nbsp;(not his real name) guilty and sentenced him to life imprisonment. Timothy appealed against the sentence on grounds that the trial magistrate did not verify the facts as presented. He argued that he was not given time to prepare for his defence since the case was conducted in only two days and judgment delivered. READ MORE Form One student hacked to death after suspected rape Judges in Kenya root for review of Sexual Offences Act to end unfair penalties New Bill seals loophole exploited by child defilers Upon hearing his appeal, High Court Judges Linet Ndolo and Joseph Karanja quashed the sentence and set him free, ruling that the two had previously had sexual intercourse and it wasn&#39;t the first time to warrant the charge of defilement. The judges&#39; conclusion was that the prosecution did not prove the charge against Timothy beyond reasonable doubt. Appellate judges Onyango Otieno, Festus Azangalala and Sankale ole Kantai also saved a 20-year-old man from life imprisonment after he was found guilty of defiling an underage girl by both a magistrate court and the High Court. According to the case, Martin (not real name) was at his employer&#39;s maize farm in December 2008 gathering weeds to feed cows. The complainant, then a minor aged six years, passed by the farm on her way to her grandmother&#39;s house. Martin allegedly dragged her to the maize plantation where he defiled her. He then ran away, leaving the minor on the farm. Timothy was arrested two days later and charged with both defilement and indecent act on a minor. The trial magistrate found him guilty of the second count of indecent act and sentenced him to 10 years in jail. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;