Kenya, once again finds itself on the edge and having to work towards complying with the directives issued by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) after the disbanding of the National Olympic Committee of Kenya (Nock) whose membership comprises affiliates from all the sporting disciplines. The irony of the whole spectacle is the fact that IOC as created by the Congress of Paris on June 23, 1894 was entrusted with the control and development of the modern Olympic Games yet its offspring; in this case Nock seems to be keen on taking away the few sporting disciplines Kenya is involved in within the framework of the Modern Olympic Games. While the disbandment was the expected reaction after a dramatic Rio Olympics, it is not and cannot be the one thing that would recreate the universe so that everything falls in place. Kenya is a country so rich in culture that we would stand the best chance of participating in all the major Olympics games if not all the Olympic Games. How is it that we are unable to harness the resilience of the Turkana&rsquo;s and the Pokot who have for a long period of time lived and probably built the adaption to survive in the harshest conditions, is it not obvious that such a person equipped with proper training would probably dazzle the world in the 42km-marathon genre? That we do not have a single Maasai participating in the Javelin and Long Jump competitions speaks of a people bestowed with so much by nature but choose to look elsewhere for their salvation. READ MORE IOC STICKS BY NOCK: World body declines to recognise Kioni-led interim committee Sports minister speaks on decision to disband Nock Kipchoge Keino awarded by UAE for his exemplary contribution in sports Our diversity as a people would be sufficient to give birth to a nation of the world&rsquo;s most exceptional sporting talent! There is a greater need for the country to reflect on the possible interventions that would bring about sanity in the running of sports in Kenya. We must be fair to the leadership of the country, since for the first time since independence, we have a piece of legislation namely the Sports Act that seeks to harness sports for development, encourage and promote drug-free sports and recreation, provide for the establishment of sports institutions, facilities, administration and management of sports in the country. What, however, remains to be seen is the operationalisation of this particular piece of legislation. The Sports Act creates a body known as Sports Kenya whose mandate among others is to promote, co-ordinate and implement grassroots, national and international sports programs for Kenyans, in liaison with the relevant sports organizations and facilitate the active participation of Kenyans in regional, continental and international sports, including in sports administration. While the National Assembly has invited the Cabinet secretary to answer questions regarding the Rio mess, we are yet to hear from Sports Kenya, yet we have an existing board in which the Attorney General sits and should have guided the executive on the disbanding of the National Olympic Committee. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;