President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday announced a Sh12.1 billion boost for the coffee sector. Uhuru said his administration had also waived a Sh9.5 billion debt for coffee farmers and established a Commodities Fund that has supported at least 100,000 farmers with Sh2.6 million. The President further announced a Sh2 billion commitment to support the youth practising agriculture as part of incentives to turn around the sector. At the same time, he reiterated his administration&#39;s commitment to&nbsp; reviving agriculture. Speaking at the Nairobi International Trade Fair, Uhuru regretted that the country&#39;s coffee production had plummeted by a third since 1970. The Government, he said, was pulling all the stops to revive the sector, which is a major revenue earner. READ MORE IEBC commissioners issue resignation notice to President Uhuru Jubilee Party challenged to name officials President Uhuru warns over delay to pay youth &quot;As part of my administration&#39;s effort to revitalise coffee production and exports, our coffee farmers should be pleased to hear that my administration has allowed a debt waiver of Sh9.5 billion. This measure will no doubt free them to turn their resources to increasing production,&quot; said Uhuru. He added: &quot;My administration has also developed the Kenya coffee mark of origin to improve our brand visibility; equally, we have abolished the four per cent ad-valorem levy, and established the Commodities Fund, which has supported 100,000 coffee farmers with a total of Sh2.6 billion.&quot; He said the money allocated to support the youth would be used to train them in new farming technologies. &quot;It will also be spent on new technology and management so that through the entire agriculture value chain, from the farm to your plate, our youth have a chance to grow a business and to earn a living,&quot; the President said. The programme targets to benefit over 750,000 young people within five years. The President noted that there are talks with development partners to raise Sh7 billion over the next five years for the programme. Uhuru challenged the youth to embrace agriculture and assured them of his Government&#39;s commitment to empower them. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;