&nbsp; Opposition leader Raila Odinga Opposition leader Raila Odinga yesterday reacted to public criticism over his fiery exchange with President Uhuru Kenyatta during former minister William ole Ntimama&rsquo;s funeral by reiterating that he stands by his rebuke of the Jubilee government. Raila, who took on Jubilee MPs for failing to table in the National Assembly the Truth Justice and Reconciliation Commission Report, which recommends sanctions against those who have trampled on land rights of marginalised groups such as the Maasai, found himself at the receiving end of President Kenyatta&rsquo;s criticism during the funeral in Narok County last Wednesday. The harsh exchanges triggered a public outcry in some quarters with ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and other leaders asking Raila and President Kenyatta to tone down their language and desist from politicising funerals. However, yesterday Raila remained unapologetic and said historical injustices cannot be swept under the carpet. In a press statement sent from Heidelberg, Germany where he is leading the Orange Democratic Movement in a retreat to discuss the party&rsquo;s strategies ahead of next year&rsquo;s General Election, Raila said the TJRC report raised key governance issues. &ldquo;The report spelled the way to tackle poverty and inequality as well as combating regional development imbalances, tackling unemployment among the youth, consolidating national cohesion and unity, transparency, protection of indigenous communities, addressing accountability and impunity,&rdquo; he said. The former premier said it was ironic that some leaders were claiming that the President had been provoked and that he was somehow disrespectful in raising this matter. READ MORE Raila: I stand by what I said during Ntimama&rsquo;s burial Raila: Why Uhuru has refused to implement TJRC report years later The William Ntimama that I knew &ldquo;I raised the TJRC issue as a matter of conscience. I did it as a duty to my country and as part of my deep belief that historical injustices have occurred in Kenya and they need to be addressed as recommended in the original TJRC report,&rdquo; said Raila. He said some parts of the damning report had been expunged because the establishment was uncomfortable with it and that is why some of foreigners in the commission had refused to sign it. Raila said the Jubilee Coalition was still uncomfortable with the redacted report and that is why they did not want it debated in the National Assembly. Marginalised groups The Coalition for Reforms and Democracy (CORD) co-principal said recommendations of the report must be implemented, and noted that marginalised groups such as the Maasai had been dispossessed, tossed around and overran, first by the colonialists then by successive post-independent governments. Raila said on many occasions in private, Ntimama&rsquo;s Iltaaroosero clan, representatives of his Ilnyankusi age-group and the Maa community in general raised the matters of Maasai land rights with him. &ldquo;It was important that as we buried Ntimama, we remind the national leadership of his unfinished agenda that must be acted on,&rdquo; said Raila. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;