A political showdown is looming between ODM and the Jubilee Party over the venue of planned rallies this coming weekend. Both parties have claimed rights to Jomo Kenyatta sports grounds for their planned weekend rallies. Officials from both parties have maintained that they have the rights to use the field on Saturday after acquiring permission. Jubilee leaders in the county yesterday claimed to have been the first to secure the venue from the grounds managers and would have their event go on as planned. On the other hand, Kisumu Central ODM leaders said they had permission to use the field as they were the first to secure the rights. The situation has rejuvenated a political tussle similar to one that occurred in Nairobi last week, when both parties claimed the right to use Masinde Muliro grounds in Mathare for their rallies. READ MORE Kidero vows to bankroll Raila campaigns Rebel governors, MPs now dare Raila to kick them out Opposition to Vice Chancellor in bad taste A letter written to the Jomo Kenyatta sports grounds management on September 19 and signed by the Jubilee Party Nyanza region chairman, Odhiambo Liete, indicated that the party had sought permission to hold a rally at the venue. &quot;The Jubilee Party is planning to hold a political rally on September 24 at the Jomo Kenyatta grounds. We, therefore, ask for availability of the grounds for the party&#39;s function/rally,&quot; read the letter in part. Mr Liete yesterday said the party had made all the arrangements to use the grounds, including informing the police to provide security during the event. &quot;I personally spoke to the grounds manager on Monday morning by phone, when I asked about the availability of the venue. He confirmed that nobody had booked the venue and that is when I asked him to reserve it for us,&quot; said Liete. However, Kisumu Central ODM treasurer, Edward Ogola, said his office was the first to secure the grounds. &quot;Immediately we came from the ODM 10th anniversary events in Mombasa, we had a well laid out schedule of activities and this rally is just part of what we are implementing in our programme,&quot; said Mr Ogola. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;