At least four more people have been killed in raging armed conflict between Borana and Somali herders along the Isiolo-Garissa border. The fighting took place in Tana village about 11km north of Garba-Tula town on Saturday. Hundreds of villagers have fled as tension rose between rival herders from the two counties. The gun fight involved Borana herders on the Isiolo side and Auliyan from Lagdera in Garissa. Yesterday, it emerged that the Isiolo side attacked Tana village and killed three people, and injured two others in what authorities said was a retaliatory attack. The attackers also lost a fighter in the gun battle. Garba-Tula Deputy County Commissioner Kipchumba Rutto confirmed the deaths and injury, while his boss, County Commissioner George Natembeya, said only two were killed and another two injured. Mr Natembeya added that they could not confirm the death of one of the attackers as his body was not recovered. The herders from Lagdera said a herdsman identified as Mukhtar Dubow was shot dead while his two children, Mahat (17) and Fatuma (six), also died in the attack. They said two other people were also injured. Mr Rutto said one of the attackers identified only as Kubu from Biliko in Merti district also died. LONG HISTORY Both administrators said the bodies were ferried by police to Banane in Lagdera for burial, which took place yesterday. The two sides have had a long history of bloody clashes since the 1980s and fresh animosity arises whenever the Garissa side come to Isiolo in search of pasture and water during drought. This time, relationships between the two sides collapsed following incidents of cattle rustlings and crime around water points and grazing fields that started last May. The lowest moment came last Thursday following the killing of an elderly woman and her two grandchildren, which sparked a major protest from top Isiolo leaders. The trio were executed in gangland style - they were tied to a tree before being shot at point-blank range and their throats slit. Garba-Tula MCA Abdi Sora identified the deceased as Kuyu Kanu,75, and her grandchildren Abdi Rashid aged eight years, and 11-year-old Ali Diba. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;