The Auditor General-led team reviewing the Constitution has added its voice to the call to push the election date, thus extending Parliament&rsquo;s and President Kenyatta&rsquo;s term. The working group, that carried out a three-year audit of the Constitution, said the current arrangement would not allow Members of Parliament to effectively review next year&rsquo;s Budget. They said although the Constitution stipulated that the General Election be held on the second Tuesday of August every five years, it also required that the Budget be read in June, tight timelines that might lead to delays in passing Budgets during election years. &ldquo;Budget-making in an election year is problematic. The Constitution provides for elections to be held in August of the election year, yet the Budget should be finalised and presented during the month of June,&rdquo; Auditor General Edward Ouko said. &ldquo;This is the period of intense political campaigns. There is a risk of MPs lacking sufficient time to review and pass Budgets. There is a risk that there will be delays,&rdquo; he added. There is widespread agreement that the election date should be moved to December although it is still unclear how this would be done given that it amounts to changing the Constitution. READ MORE Jubilee starts talks to unite gubernatorial aspirants Auditor General wants more cash for thorough audit CORD leaders clash over 2017 ticket A referendum Unlike in the old Constitution, the 2010 Constitution is not clear on whether MPs have a window to use a Bill seeking to amend the Constitution other than the way it has been published, or such a change will require a referendum. Ugenya MP David Ochieng has sponsored the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill 2015 seeking to shift the date of next year&rsquo;s&nbsp; elections to December 2017, which received support from the floor of the House although the legislators could not agree on whether the Bill should be subjected to a referendum or not. Mr Ochieng wanted the poll date moved to avoid disrupting the Budget cycle, the national examination calendar and peak tourism season. The calls for a push of the election date also came as the realities of changing the electoral commissioners became apparent. Attorney General Githu Muigai asked Parliament to consider extending poll date to allow reconstitution of IEBC.