Nairobi: With less than one year to the General Election, Coalition for Reforms and Democracy (CORD) leader Raila Odinga is working on a political matrix to dethrone Jubilee in the first round. In separate interviews with CORD insiders, The Standard on Saturday has established that the game plan includes backing Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi as the Opposition presidential candidate, with Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka as his running mate. Proponents of this scheme believe a Mudavadi/Kalonzo ticket would deliver decisive victory to CORD in round one and deny Jubilee both the presidency and majority in Parliament. In May, CORD constituted a team to evaluate possible outcomes of the presidential race with various scenarios where each of the three principals is the presidential candidate. The team has since expanded the scope of candidates to include Mudavadi. According to a member of the team, a Mudavadi candidacy would lock Western Kenya region for CORD and Kalonzo would bring on board the lower Eastern and significant pockets of Coast region. The team is led by Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama (Wiper), his Siaya counterpart James Orengo (ODM) and Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu (Ford Kenya). READ MORE It pays to make a dignified exit and find an escape route Battle for Coast: Raila fires at Ruto over wealth Uhuru, Raila close ranks on IEBC Formidable team &ldquo;Raila is keen to see a new government replace Jubilee in the August 2017 elections and he believes that if a different Opposition candidate has better chances than him, then that candidate should be supported,&rdquo; said a member of the team, who sought anonymity because he is not authorised to reveal ongoing discussions. ODM Chairman and Suba MP John Mbadi confirmed that CORD had indeed opened talks with Mudavadi. He said they were confident of building a formidable team that would send Jubilee home next year. &ldquo;Indeed we are talking. But we are not going to unveil our candidate now. We will not do it before December, and when we finally do it, it will be a bang. The ship we are building is huge and will definitely form the next government,&rdquo; said Mbadi. Muthama said the political formation in the works would deliver big and early victory in the presidential election. &ldquo;With the political equations we are putting in place, we are confident of victory in the coming presidential race. The only worry for our supporters is how to safeguard our victory from being taken away from us,&rdquo; said Muthama. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;