Wiper party MPs who recently decamped to the newly formed Jubilee party have vowed to popularise Jubilee government in Ukambani saying that the community cannot risk another &quot;dry spell in the opposition.&quot; Jubilee government has been initiating project after another in the Wiper party stronghold whose effect pundits say is to neutralise Kalonzo Musyoka&#39;s hold in the region. Wiper party suffered a huge blow recently when its MPs among them Kisoi Munyao (Mbooni), Regina Ndambuki (Kilome), Joe Mutambu (Mwingi Central), Richard Makenga (Kaiti) and John Munuve (Mwingi North) all trooped to Jubilee claiming that CORD had no chance of forming the next government. &quot;We have to be realistic and look at the greater good of our people. Kalonzo and CORD cannot win the next election that is why we have made a conscious decision to join the winning team. The community cannot risk another stint in the opposition or be held hostage by the whims of an individual,&quot; said Mr Munyao. Mr Mutambu added: &quot;Even if we were to wholly vote for him (Kalonzo) he can&#39;t win because we don&#39;t have the numbers that is why we are asking Kalonzo to rethink his strategy because the Kamba community wants to be in the next government and it will be a Jubilee government.&quot; To drive their message home, the so called Wiper rebels at the weekend issued a 30 day ultimatum to Kalonzo to call for a consultative Kamba leaders meeting to chart the community&#39;s political direction. READ MORE Split in CORD? Not at all, principals vow Raila, Kalonzo in talks as Mudavadi knocks Kalonzo allies fight back over call to dissolve Wiper Party Speaking at St Joseph Catholic Church in Matuu, Machakos County, the legislators who were joined by Yatta MP Francis Mwangangi of Muungano party said should Kalonzo ignore them and fail to convene the meeting, they will make a political declaration soon after November 15 that will change the political scenario in Ukambani. &quot;The community is politically divided and it risks political oblivion. That&#39;s why we need a sober dialogue and we are extending an olive branch to him to call the meeting so that we chart the way forward for the community. Let them be warned that the community will not be held hostage by a clique of a few individuals. The ground has shifted and there is no turning back,&quot; Munyao noted. Asked whether they wanted Kalonzo to join Jubilee, Munyao said it was up to him. However Mutambu, who claimed to &quot;own&quot; Wiper said the party should be dissolved. &quot;We are ready to sell the community as long as key development projects that are beneficial to our people are realised in the region,&quot; Mwangangi stated. However, Wiper luminaries have dismissed the MPs as a wayward lot out for personal profiteering and scuttle Kalonzo&#39;s presidential ambitions. &quot;Those MPs do not belong to Wiper and have no mandate to issue statements regarding our party. I dare them to convene the meeting they are talking about and make the declaration. That will be the end of their political careers,&quot; Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama warned. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;