Preparations for the burial of veteran politician William ole Ntimama are in high gear with government officials and family members Thursday inspecting the burial site ahead of Wednesday&#39;s ceremony. Thursday, Rift Valley Regional Commissioner Wanyama Musiambo led members of the provincial administration in a meeting with the late Ntimama&#39;s family to assess the ongoing preparations. After the meeting, Musiambo said they had already identified parking, food serving areas and a prayer site as well as the dais to be used on the D-day. President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to attend the burial where more than 50,000 people are also expected. &quot;All is well.We have identified every point and assigned duties to respective people.We want to give the statesman a befitting sendoff,&quot; said Musiambo. He said security will also be tight starting Thursday until the burial day to ensure that mourners both from Kenya and abroad are safe. Musiambo added that all that was remaining was the implementation of what had been planned and agreed upon by the family committees and the security team. READ MORE Uhuru and Moi condole with Ntimama's family 'Special' bull to die for Ntimama Ntimama's burial date changed to September 14 Celebrate his life The burial preparation Chairman Hassan ole Kamwaro said there will be a meeting on Monday for all the Narok residents to celebrate the life and times of Ntimama. &quot;On Monday, there will be a meeting where all Maa leaders from Samburu, Kajiado and Narok as well as residents will have a pre-celebration to specially mourn the departed hero,&quot; said Kamwaro. Kamwaro released a programme leading to the day of burial on Wednesday. He said on Tuesday, there will be a requiem mass at All Saints Cathedral, Nairobi starting from 9am to 10am. On the burial day,the body will leave Lee Funeral Home at 6:30am with the burial service expected to start at 10.30am. Meanwhile, area MP Moitalel Kenta who jetted in from Sweden where he was attending a seminar, raised concern over hateful posts on social media purportedly &#39;celebrating&#39; the death of the late icon, saying police should take action. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;