Working relationships between Governors and Members of County Assemblies between 2014 and 2015 appeared so strained; the former would be threatened with impeachment for failure to pander up to the whims of the latter. Arm-twisting Governors worked for MCAs who indulged their fancies in such outrageous ways there was public outcry. Bench-marking trips to foreign countries by MCAs, endless retreats and even demands for spouses allowances occupied most of their time to the detriment of service provision. Kenyans will recall the wave of impeachments started with Embu Governor Martin Wambora, who, despite the Senate upholding his impeachment, went to court and is still the governor today. Upholding Mr Wambora&rsquo;s impeachment led to bad blood between the Senate and governors where the former were perceived to be working in cahoots with MCAs to frustrate governors. Consequently governors resolved to snub summonses from the Senate. While colleagues had urged embattled Nyeri Governor Nderitu Gachagua not to appear before the Senate, he chose to and in the end was cleared of wrong doing. Two things come out of this; that first, the Senate operates professionally and is not an enemy of governors. Second, most accusations by MCAs have no legal basis as most are anchored on heresay and witch-hunting. A salient point driven home by Mr Gachagua&rsquo;s acquittal is that governors and MCAs must learn to solve their differences in a more sober manner. Constructive dialogue must at all times form the basis of their daily interactions in executing their separate, yet complimentary duties. Trust is a key factor in good working relationships and this should be worked on. MCAs should in turn learn to conduct thorough investigations where they suspect mischief in order not to appear vindictive in the eyes of the public. Claims of misuse of public funds in Mr Gachagua&rsquo;s case were not supported by evidence from the Auditor General&rsquo;s office as stated by Senate. READ MORE Nyeri leaders express mixed feelings on Senate verdict Why Gachagua survived impeachment though he was guilty Senate unanimously saves Gachagua from impeachment