Why now? And why this? For the legion of Republicans who abandoned Donald Trump on Saturday, recoiling in horror from comments their party&rsquo;s White House nominee made about using his fame to prey on women, there is no escaping those questions. For months, they stomached his incendiary remarks about Mexicans, Muslims, prisoners of war, a Gold Star military family and a Hispanic judge, along with offensive statements about women too numerous to count. Democratic critics argue that their silence &mdash; or the promise to vote for Trump, but not endorse him &mdash; amounted to tacit approval of misogyny and racism. There were no good answers on Saturday, and few Republicans attempted to offer any. Some, including House Speaker Paul Ryan and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, did not say anything at all about the top of the party&rsquo;s ticket. READ MORE America&rsquo;s polls will have direct impact on Kenyans Trump vows to stay in race after calls for him to quit over lewd remarks Trump defiantly apologises after lewd remarks about women revealed A steady stream of others revoked their endorsements or called for Trump to drop out of the race, condemning the New York billionaire in emailed statements and carefully crafted tweets. Those fleeing from Trump may ultimately say it was the shock of hearing and seeing the businessman&rsquo;s crudeness on video that prompted them to finally walk away. On Friday, The Washington Post and NBC News both released a 2005 recording of Trump describing attempts to have sex with a married woman. His words were caught on a live microphone while talking with Billy Bush, then a host of &ldquo;Access Hollywood.&rdquo; Some may draw a distinction between Trump&rsquo;s outrageous earlier comments about women, minorities and others by noting that this time, the businessman was not just being offensive &mdash; he was describing actions that could be considered sexual assault. In the video, Trump is heard saying that his fame allows him to &ldquo;do anything&rdquo; to women. &ldquo;Grab them by the p----. You can do anything,&rdquo; he says. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;