This past weekend reminded me of just how much I detest the circus that is the one year leading up to elections. Let the frenzy, the noise, the mudslinging begin. It&rsquo;s going to be a year-long combination of disaster and comedy and if it weren&rsquo;t so tragic, we would probably get plenty of laughs from it. And yes, I know I am being somewhat dramatic but there are so many ways in which elections throw the sensibilities of otherwise sane people out the window that it never ceases to amaze me. There is one aspect of our existence that it does not seem we will ever rid ourselves of &ndash; the tribal conversation. For a short while it seemed that we had started to gain some level of sanity where this was concerned. There is one place where I always look when I want to get a feeling of what is going on on the ground and it tends to be representative of how people are feeling regardless of what they say when they are not donning anonymous personalities. On social media and online forums. READ MORE Singer Bahati&rsquo;s bad showing Jubilee will face bruising battle, Isaac Ruto promises Political parties' extravaganza in bad faith We have long blamed politicians for inciting the fires that burn behind tribal lines and tribal conflicts. And to a certain extent, they deserve part of this responsibility. But to be honest, we have to accept the role that we play in allowing our tempers and biases to be inflamed to the point where we cannot see reason. Months ago I alluded to how the tribal fires are fanned and how the mistrust develops. Historically, for over 50 years, the political elite have used the tribe conversation to create the &lsquo;us&rsquo; and &lsquo;them&rsquo; factions, fanning enmity out of neighbors and friends. We cite historical injustices, some of which have caused the inequality that we now have to live with. But after going into elections a couple of times now, we can hardly claim to now recognize when we are being used as pawns, as a critical mass which is both predictable and easily impressionable. When every online conversation deteriorates into hurling insults at each other by virtue of our perceived political allegiances, and in turn a hostility borne of the fact that we come from different regions in the country, we can no longer blame politicians. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;