Interviews for the next Chief Justice commenced on August 29 with Justice Alnashir Visram. The Judicial Service Commission (JSC) interviewed 12 candidates, the last candidate being Justice Jackton Ojwang. The first and last interviewees will be most remembered for excellence in tackling issues. The interview process that has been a rigorous and informative exercise, leaving both the consumers of justice law, litigants and the public educated on the ideal qualities of a Chief Justice. What Kenyans and the JSC should be looking for in a Chief Justice is neither complex nor novel. The Chief Justice is Head of the Judiciary as well as the Chairperson of JSC and the President of Supreme Court. He is also the link between the Judiciary and two other arms of the Government &mdash; the Executive and the Legislature. A Chief Justice must be man or woman with high moral character, integrity and impartiality. These are the basic constitutional requirements. Moral character is a by nature subjective in its description and standards. READ MORE New Chief Justice to be named as JSC interviews end Supreme Court judge Jackton Ojwang clashes with JSC over his conduct I stand by my statement about Mr Kenyatta, says CJ hopeful Mutua Suffice it to say that for a Chief Justice to publicly advocate on matters and issues that contradict the national values and principles of the Kenyan people would be offensive to the national moral character of the nation. Personal morality is also central, hence any weaknesses would do not meet the moral character test. However, a pertinent question is what happens when one is already compromised and has a known history of debauchery and financial impropriety? It leaves one open to blackmail and ultimately under the control of vested interests. A Chief Justice is the head of the temple of justice and for this alone the position calls for a person who must have a consistent history of honesty and high moral character. To ensure that the wheels of justice do not come to a halt, the CJ must have the utmost respect for professional calling governed by the codes of professional and judicial conduct. However, we must remember that none of us are without blemish, and any controversy that has a logical, sensible and reasonable explanation should never lock an aspirant out. Against this backdrop what is the yardstick? Key is impartiality, whose attributes can be tested on several fronts, such as fairness, demonstrated by neutrality in the delivery of just decisions. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;