Nairobi: Legislators were yesterday angered by the delay in releasing their share of Sh25 billion Constituency Development Fund. The National Government Constituency Development Fund (NG-CDF) board yesterday notified the National Assembly that the amended version of the law requires that the Fund be equally distributed among the constituencies. This means each of the 290 constituencies will receive Sh81 million under the new law governing the Constituency Development Fund. This brings to an end the disparities that saw some constituencies receive more of the development monies. The allocation were then pegged on factors like population and geographical size. Giving the status report on the Fund yesterday, the Chairman of the NG-CDF Select Committee, Eldama Ravine MP Moses Lessonet, promised the legislators that Treasury had showed willingness to have the money disbursed to all constituencies by December. However, the MP reminded members that the sharable amount will remain at Sh25 billion, that the court ruled can only be given to legislators. READ MORE Poor constituencies lose out as major changes to CDF law passed Akaranga accused of taking credit for CDF projects in Vihiga Demanded money MPs turned their heat on Lessonet, demanding that he gets an undertaking from the board on when the money will be disbursed to them. &quot;Treasury has showed us a programme and are showing willingness to have the entire Sh25 billion disbursed by December. Already it has released Sh 8 billion to the Fund&#39;s Board,&quot; said Lessonet. But the Committee chair dashed hopes of the MPs having the allocation for the 2016-2017 immediately, saying the Board first had to write to the constituency committees to have them submit the project proposals to be funded before the monies can be released. &nbsp;Entire amount Lessonet told the House that 163 constituencies had already received at least 90 per cent of their last financial year&#39;s allocations, with majority failing to get the entire amount as they had not submitted to the board the projects to be funded by some Sh500,000, that was initially retained for audit fees. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;