On September 11, far away from the memory of the 9/11 terrorist attacks in the US, another set of would be killers hoped to make history of their own. A few minutes after midday, three women, two of them sisters, left a tiny flat in Mombasa&rsquo;s Kibokoni estate with no intention of ever going back alive. Their minds were made up. They came up with an ingenious plan to cause hell on earth, but believed it would guarantee them passage to heaven. At around 12.30pm, the seemingly distressed women walked the 200 metres from their house, through Old Town to Mombasa&rsquo;s Central Police Station and asked for the records desk. They were there to report a crime, so they said. But as soon as the first policeman was near enough, one of the women removed a dagger from under her hijab and stabbed the officer several times. The other two, according to police reports, lit and hurled petrol bombs inside the station. In less than a minute, Tasnim Yakub Abdullahi Farah and sisters Ramla Abdulrahman Hussein and Maimuna Hussein lay dead in pools of blood. READ MORE Al Shabaab attacks Somali town near Kenyan border, kill seven troops Turkish soldiers, Kurdish militants killed in violence in Turkey's southeast Niger, Chad armies kill 38 Boko Haram fighters Ultimately, even the bullet proof vests under their robes could not stop the bullets. But had the siege lasted a minute longer, the damage could have been worse. The three had suicide vests. Little is known about Tasnim, who is believed to be an orphan who once lived in Changamwe. It is not clear whether the three women prayed at any mosque or came under the influence of some radicals, but authorities now believe they were active on the Internet within jihadist circles after intercepting chatter between the girls and Jihadi groups. Maimuna and Ramla lived a reclusive life, according to sources who indicated that their parents forbade any of the sisters from leaving home without permission. The parents even installed WiFi in the house to dissuade them from going to look for Internet services outside. Then they suddenly went missing from home that Sunday morning and by the time the parents were reporting their disappearance, the two were already dead. Before they sneaked out of their home, however, the sisters wrote a letter to their parents and ISIS using the names Umm Sa&rsquo;ad, Umm Maysarah and Umm Ma&rsquo;abad. The choice of Umm Ma&rsquo;abad, in particular, raises a question as to why one of the women chose a name of the one of the most respected women during prophet Muhammad&rsquo;s life. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 4 Next &raquo;