Police in Sotik are holding a 29 year-old man who caused a social media storm on Monday after he posted pictures on Facebook allegedly bragging after defiling a minor. Calvin Alfayo Mbane alias Mohammed Alfayo was arrested at the border town of Chebilat after his post went viral on social media with Kenyans calling for his immediate arrest and prosecution. According to Sotik OCPD Jonathan Ngala, Alfayo is suspected to have defiled a Standard Four pupil and taken to his&nbsp;Facebook page&nbsp;to brag about it. Alfayo Mbane the suspect was arrested at the trading centre&nbsp;at around 11.00pm&nbsp;at a cyber cafe. Ngala said the suspect was trailed from 9.00pm&nbsp;by detectives from Sotik police station who were dispatched after public outcry brought the matter to their attention. He said the suspect&#39;s phone has been confiscated to help police in their investigations. READ MORE Facebook rolls out pared down Messenger app for emerging markets Facebook blocks account of blogger after he shared a picture of cat Mutua appeals to immigration department to revoke orders on passport &quot;The suspect is under custody and we are now working on the investigations to confirm that he was the one posting them or whether his Facebook page may have been hacked,&quot; said the police boss. He said police have also launched a hunt for the victim who is alleged to be a standard four pupil. &quot;Sotik DCIO Kinoti Marete has taken over the case and he is now invesgating&nbsp;the suspect so that he can help in the arraignment&nbsp;and prosecution of the suspect,&quot; Ngala told the Standard at Sotik police station. A twitter hashtag #arrestmohammedalfayo went viral with police being pressured by Kenyans who demanded their&nbsp;swift action. &quot;We are carrying out investigations because on his Facebook page there are suggestive posts and at one time he has changed his religion from Christianity to Islam and we are not leaving anything to chance,&quot; Ngala said. Ngala further revealed that Alfayo dropped from Administration Police Service and has further dropped from University. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;