ASIA: The death of Thai King Bhumibol Adulyadej will not affect plans to hold a general election in 2017, media reported on Monday, dismissing speculation that the military government would delay the poll as the country enters a year of mourning. Thais continued to flock from across the country to the Grand Palace in Bangkok to pay their respects to the king, a beloved father figure who died on Thursday after seven decades on the throne. Officials said they expected tens of thousands every day at the palace and, with so many arriving in Bangkok from the provinces, the city administration has ordered youth centers and public gyms to provide free accommodations. The death of the world&#39;s longest-reigning monarch had raised questions over whether the junta would delay elections paving the way for a return to civilian rule. However, the Bangkok Post newspaper reported the poll would proceed as planned. &quot;The government has reaffirmed its commitment to following the roadmap for general elections scheduled for late next year,&quot; the newspaper said. Weerachon Sukondhapatipak, a spokesman for the military government, declined to comment. READ MORE Thailand's King Bhumibol takes final journey past grieving subjects Thai King Bhumibol, world's longest-reigning monarch, dies - palace &quot;This is not the time to discuss politics,&quot; he told Reuters. The government has stressed since the king&#39;s death that the economy and government will work as normal, and it has sought to dispel uncertainty over the succession. Thais voted overwhelmingly in August to accept a military-backed constitution, which critics say could enshrine military power for years to come. Deputy Prime Minister Wissanu Krea-ngam told reporters the constitution would be sent to the palace for approval - considered a formality - no later than early November. &quot;The crown will have 90 days to consider it,&quot; Wissanu said. King Bhumibol earned the devotion of Thais for his efforts to help the rural poor, including agricultural development projects. He was also seen as a stabilizing figure in a country often racked by political turmoil. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;