NAIROBI: Four years ago, I witnessed a deportation drama involving a young Kenyan at Paris&rsquo; Charles de Gaulle Airport in France. His hands and legs were in chains. His face had this haunted look; the same expression I saw on Abdullah Ocalan&rsquo;s face, the Kurdish nationalistic leader when he was arrested in Nairobi in 1999. It is the expression of a trapped animal. When the young man in France finally told me his story, I asked myself: is it worth the trouble? Thousands of refugees are seeking asylum in the West. Many of these are genuinely running from war, persecution and poverty. But what do we make of my friend who used well over Sh400,000 ($4,000) to find his way to a French refugee camp? Why not start a business here with the cash? Of course, the decision processes are not quite the same. African immigrants are spending millions of dollars to reach Europe illegally. To cross the Sahara from Ghana, for example, requires two things that ordinary people don&rsquo;t have: A suicidal mind-set and lots of cash to bribe boarder officials, pay human traffickers and bandits, not counting the cost of food, water and accommodation. READ MORE Awards against media in Kenya akin to censorship Chinese firm expects super profit of Sh8.6b from Nairobi project Kenya should prepare for crisis and economic slowdown after capping interest rates It is safe to conclude that many &lsquo;desperate&rsquo; emigrants are actually from rich backgrounds and are no more genuine asylums seekers than adventurists. I often say that if I had the way, I would bundle all our young people into jumbo jets and deposit them in various Western capitals. I am 101 per cent sure they would come whimpering back to their mothers within a week. It is the only way to make them realise that the West as they know it, is largely an illusion. The image of a chained young man in a dirty T-shirt and a paper bag as his only possession has never left me. Yet, for many young people, hopping into a plane and settling in &#39;majuu&#39; is a lifelong aspiration. Parents will do anything to encourage their children to immigrate even when the prospects of landing a job abroad are becoming bleaker even for citizens there. In asylum seeking, Kenyans from middle class families will lie about &lsquo;forced marriages&rsquo;, &lsquo;FGM&rsquo;, &lsquo;Mungiki&rsquo; etc. There are valid reasons pushing people to seek asylum in the Eest. I am alive to the importance of diaspora remittances in the economies of poor nations. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;