Kenya Airways does not have a contract with organisers of Safari Sevens Rugby Tournament despite pumping monies in the event every year, a forensic investigations report on the tourney has established. The investigation, by Deloitte Consulting Limited handed to KQ board&rsquo;s Risk and Audit committee on August 5, 2016 says KQ was under no obligation to do anything other than to promote the event. The probe, which reviewed KQ&rsquo;s participation in the 2014 and 2015 tournament, Deloitte investigators found that the airline participated in the event by virtue of the sponsorship it has with the Kenya national rugby team and an invitation of Safaricom, the actual event organisers. In addition, the investigators found that catering, bar handling, branding and card printing expenses of the Safari Sevens events were single-sourced and correct procurement procedures may not have been adhered to. &ldquo;We ascertained from consultations conducted with Mr Diaz, Ms Onyach and Ms Kosgei that KQ does not have a contract, and therefore does not have any contractual obligations with the Safari Sevens organising team. This was corroborated from the review of all Safari Sevens expenditures, procurement and marketing documents,&rdquo; the report says. Chris Diaz was the Marketing Director of KQ at the time of the investigations while Winnie Onyach was events and sponsorship manager. Rose Kosgei was the procurement officer. READ MORE How loss-making KQ paid firm Sh2.3b in six months KQ ropes in Michael Joseph in turnaround strategy KQ in talks with four investors on stake sale The three-day tourney has been in existence since 1996 when it was first staged by the Rugby Patrons Society. From 1997, EABL (Tusker) took over the sponsorship of the tourney until 2009. Safaricom Limited then took over from 2010. Currently, the organising committee comprises representatives from Safaricom and the Kenya Rugby Football Union (KRFU). The investigators found that KQ, the sponsor of the national team, is not represented in the organising team and that decisions are conveyed to it through KRFU. The investigators&#39; review of the two contracts entered between KQ and KRFU on sponsorship of the national Sevens team for 2014 and 2015 ascertained that KQ was only obligated to &ldquo;promote the team at all appropriate opportunities&rdquo; including Safari Sevens. They, however, found that KQ benefited from media exposure the event received, increased air travel ticket sales and sale of KQ branded jerseys and T-shirts worn by the Sevens team. The investigators also found other transgressions in execution of the tourney. They found that Purchase Demand Indent (PDI) and Purchase Orders (PO) for the Safari Sevens tournament continued to trickle into KQ after the consumption of the services &ldquo;in possible contravention of Purchasing Procedures Manual (PPM)&rdquo;. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;