A storm is brewing in the coffee sector following the publication of a new list of companies allowed to trade in the cash crop. Of concern to farmers is the exclusion of their organisations as well as their umbrella body, the Kenya Planters Co-operative Union (KPCU) from the &quot;black gold&quot; trade. In a move that has infuriated farmers, the Agriculture and Food Authority&#39;s Coffee Directorate has issued firm instructions that dealers not in the list should not be allowed at the Coffee Exchange. The new list has ignored recommendations of the Presidential Task Force report on Coffee Reforms, just days after an implementation committee was gazetted last week. According to the list seen by&nbsp;The Standard, only 45 dealers will be allowed to trade in the crop while only eight millers have been licensed to continue with their work. The directorate has also licensed three management agents, six growers marketers, 13 warehousing companies, four commercial warehousing and six commercial marketing agents. READ MORE Sugar Directorate orders millers to release sugar Blame cartels, rogue supermarkets on sugar shortage, says regulator Coffee theft puzzle as farmers point fingers at sector cartels The timing of the listing has raised eyebrows from farmers who have questioned the rush in publishing it while there are several cases pending in court. In the circular by the Coffee Regulator to the Nairobi Stock Exchange, those with valid licences were notified through emails to the 214 market players late last week. In a development that has caused uproar from market players, those without licences will now be barred from participating in the trade of the lucrative crop. &quot;In essence, if you are not on the list then presumably you can&#39;t do coffee business in Kenya. For all intents and purposes, this reinforces the entrenched cartel and locks out farmers-owned companies such as KPCU, &quot; said an angry William Gatei, the chair of Kenya Planters Cooperative Union. &quot;It is also being done at a time when there are several court cases pending regarding the licensing powers and the implementation of the Presidential Task Force on Coffee Reforms report,&quot; added Mr Gatei, who warned that farmers will be biggest losers in the move. In the list, several multinational companies have been licensed across the value chain, which some players say is unlawful, even under the expired regulations. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;