Tilak Primary School pupils learning in the open as workers pull down their classes following a Public Health Department order. [Photo: Irissheel Shanzu/Standard] West Pokot: Tilak Primary School pupils are learning under trees after their classrooms were demolished following an order by the Ministry of Health. The school flattened 11 mud-walled structures Thursday after it was directed to do so by the Public Health Department. The iron sheets covering the classrooms were removed on Wednesday. &quot;You are required to pull down all the current mud-walled premises, provide alternative safe classrooms and improve on storm water drainage flow. The yet-to-be constructed classrooms must adhere to public health rules,&quot; the directive by Kapenguria Ward Public Health Officer Jeremiah Plimo stated. Following the demolition, the pupils are now exposed to harsh weather conditions. &quot;This school term is short and we have been forced to learn under trees to ensure that our pupils are prepared for the national examinations,&quot; said Vincent Onek, the head teacher. READ MORE Man dies after Nakuru hospital staff refuse to treat him &lsquo;for being dirty' School in Nakuru now closed for disposing waste on farm He said the school had few trees and so not all pupils could make use of shaded areas. &quot;In the morning it is very cold and the pupils in lower classes are finding it hard to cope. The upper classes are forced to study in the scorching sun because the school has few trees,&quot; said Mr Onek. The head teacher said the school had a population of 1,300 pupils and asked the Government to help rebuild it. &quot;I know county governments are not supposed to set up structures in schools but they have disaster funds they can use to help us mitigate the situation,&quot; he said. Emmanuel Rotich, a parent, asked well-wishers to help the school put up modern classrooms. The pupils&#39; president, Millicent Marion, called for additional toilets. &quot;This school has a population of over 600 girls and we have few toilets. We find it difficult to maintain personal hygiene,&quot; she said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;