Asia: Americans should vote for Donald Trump as president next month or risk being dragged into a nuclear war, according to a Russian ultra-nationalist ally of President Vladimir Putin who likes to compare himself to the U.S. Republican candidate. Vladimir Zhirinovsky, a flamboyant veteran lawmaker known for his fiery rhetoric, told Reuters in an interview that Trump was the only person able to de-escalate dangerous tensions between Moscow and Washington. By contrast, Trump&#39;s Democratic rival Hillary Clinton could spark World War Three, said Zhirinovsky, who received a top state award from Putin after his pro-Kremlin Liberal Democratic Party of Russia (LDPR) came third in Russia&#39;s parliamentary election last month. Many Russians regard Zhirinovsky as a clownish figure who makes outspoken statements to grab attention but he is also widely viewed as a faithful servant of Kremlin policy, sometimes used to float radical opinions to test public reaction. &quot;Relations between Russia and the United States can&#39;t get any worse. The only way they can get worse is if a war starts,&quot; said Zhirinovsky, speaking in his huge office on the 10th floor of Russia&#39;s State Duma, or lower house of parliament. &quot;Americans voting for a president on Nov. 8 must realize that they are voting for peace on Planet Earth if they vote for Trump. But if they vote for Hillary it&#39;s war. It will be a short movie. There will be Hiroshimas and Nagasakis everywhere.&quot; READ MORE Trump tied with Clinton in Utah after lewd remarks in video: poll Trump touched us inappropriately, two women tell New York Times Takeaway from Trump-Clinton clash Zhirinovsky&#39;s comments coincide with deep disagreements between Washington and Moscow over Syria and Ukraine and after the White House last week accused Russia of a campaign of cyber attacks against Democratic Party organizations. Even as WikiLeaks released another trove of internal documents from Clinton&rsquo;s campaign on Wednesday, Putin insisted his country was not involved in an effort to influence the U.S. presidential election. THE RUSSIAN TRUMP? Zhirinovsky likes to shock liberal public opinion and he has frequently heaped scorn on the West, which he and other Russian nationalists regard as decadent, hypocritical and corrupted by political correctness. His combative style, reminiscent of Trump&#39;s, ensures him plenty of television air time and millions of votes in Russian elections, often from the kind of blue-collar workers who are the bedrock of the U.S. Republican candidate&#39;s support. Zhirinovsky once proposed blocking off mostly Muslim southern Russia with a barbed wire fence, echoing Trump&#39;s call for a wall along the U.S. border with Mexico. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;