Trouble is simmering among members of Jubilee Party (JP) in its strongholds of Central Kenya and Rift Valley ahead of the unveiling of interim party officials. Even before the national officials are unveiled, leaders are jostling for positions at the grassroots ahead of party primaries. National officials are expected to be unveiled next week by President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto. Factions have already emerged in Nakuru, Narok, Murang&rsquo;a, Meru, Kiambu, Kirinyaga and Nyandarua counties. Some overzealous leaders are falling over themselves as they open offices across the counties and appoint interim officials, despite the JP national office warning against the move. In Nakuru County, Governor Kinuthia Mbugua and Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri have been put on the spot over their attempts to impose party leaders on the people. County Assembly Speaker Susan Kihika and outgoing Nacada chairman John Mututho have mobilised some 100 aspirants to try and stop those attempts. READ MORE Leaders divided on whether PNU will be a liability or asset to Jubilee Chaos as Jubilee supporters use rotten eggs to disrupt meeting Jubilee, Ford Kenya intensify campaigns in Trans Nzoia Ms Kihika, who has declared her interest for the Senate seat, has teamed up with Mututho &mdash; the contender of the governor&rsquo;s seat &mdash; to thwart any attempts by Governor Mbugua and Mr Ngunjiri to dictate who the party officials at the county level would be. Re-election bids Mbugua and Ngunjiri have been working together for their re-election bids and are believed to be fronting city lawyer Karanja Kabage for the Senate seat. The two have roped in Nakuru Town West MP Samuel Arama, Jacob Macharia (Molo), Moses Cheboi (Kuresoi North) and Naivasha&rsquo;s Joseph Kihagi to back a group of interim county party officials led by James Karimi as chairman. Mr Karimi is said to have opened a JP office at Nakuru Showground and paid Sh8,000 rent for the month of October. Karimi&rsquo;s lineup comprises Harrison Muiruri, the former TNA Nakuru branch chairman, as interim branch secretary and Joseph Bett, a former Nakuru deputy mayor, to act as vice chairman. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;