Muslim leaders have disowned the three women who attacked a police station in Mombasa on Sunday. The leaders said they were horrified by the attack carried out by the women wearing the traditional Muslim dress, hijab. They said they were concerned about the growing role of Muslim women within the jihadist movement and their willingness to fight in the frontline. Speaking during the Idd-ul-Adha celebrations in Mombasa, Chief Kadhi Sharif Muhdar condemned the attack, saying Islam was a peaceful religion and that those carrying out terror attacks while dressed as Muslims were tainting the religion&#39;s image. He said the time had come for stern measures to be taken against those involved in terror activities regardless of gender or religion. &quot;Women have been used in the past to support terror activities and have now decided to join these groups. They should face the full force of the law regardless,&quot; said Mr Muhdar. Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar said the attack should be taken seriously because it was the first time in Kenya that women were being used in first-line combat in terrorism. He called on security agencies to ensure that the person behind the attack was arrested. READ MORE Four people arrested as details of 3 female terrorists in Mombasa attack emerge One of Mombasa police station attackers did her KCSE in 2013 Three assailants killed in Mombasa police station attack &quot;I have always known that whenever women go as jihad brides, they give moral support but it is the first time I have seen in our country women being treated as first-line combatants in executing terror,&quot; said Mr Omar. He said the attack was shocking and unique and he was interested in understanding how the recruitment was done. The senator said terrorists were now recruiting young women and boys to carry out attacks, and taking advantage of their naivety to lure them into terror activities. Omar expressed support for security agencies and committed to co-operate to ensure that the perpetrators behind the attack were brought to book. &quot;We need to co-operate with the security teams. I am interested in the outcome and apprehending of the perpetrators. They should be punished severely for this,&quot; said Omar. Meanwhile, Supreme Council of Kenyan Muslims (Supkem) chairman Abdulghafur Elbusaidy asked the Government to recognise Idd-ul-Adha celebrations as a national holiday and gazette it. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;