Kanu leaders have embarked on popularising the party in areas where elected leaders have joined Jubilee Party. The party, according to West Pokot Senator John Lonyangapuo, is keen on retaining regions already served by Kanu elected leaders while eating into other zones in the 2017 General Election. Lonyangapuo, who toured development projects in West Pokot at the weekend, said Jubilee Party should be ready for a shock in the coming elections, adding that Kanu was still a force to reckon with in Rift Valley. &quot;This new party is in denial from the fact that Kanu is gaining in Rift Valley,&quot; he said. The senator said Kanu leaders who have moved to Jubilee Party should be ready to go home in 2017. &quot;We have seen a few misplaced elected leaders purporting to have ditched the party through which they were elected. I wonder who will give them mandate next year yet they have abandoned the electorate,&quot; he said. READ MORE Joint nomination row threatens registration of CORD as party Kenyan politicians in race to control funds Ten new election rules you must know before next polls Lonyangapuo, who was accompanied by Kenya Civil Aviation Authority chair Samuel Poghisio and politician Augustine Lotodo, said Jubilee leaders had made it their business to tarnish Kanu&#39;s name whenever they visited the region. &quot;Everywhere they go especially in Rift Valley, Kanu has now become a chorus. If anything, they are riding on our name to reach the masses,&quot; said the Senator. Lonyangapuo likened the newly-formed Jubilee Party to the Narc coalition that was formed towards the build up to the 2003 General Election &quot;that soon after President Kibaki took over power, the ship started sinking with Kanu staying strong and independent.&quot; The Kanu brigade held meetings in Alale and Nagujit in northern Pokot, and a major rally in Sigor centre where popularising the party was at the top of their agenda. Poghisio, who is eyeing the Senate seat in 2017, called on political leaders to stop chest-thumping and looking down upon their opponents.