Senate majority leader Prof Kithure Kindiki has insisted he will table a motion of impeachment against Lands CS Prof Jacob Kaimenyi for failing to resolve Meru-Tharaka Nithi border disputes. Speaking at Ntuntuni Church, the Tharaka Nithi Senator accused the Cabinet Secretary of being arrogant and playing politics with the matter. Prof Kindiki said he had no personal grudge with Kaimenyi since he was part of those who endorsed him to become the successor of former Cabinet Secretary Charity Ngilu adding that his expectations were high that he would resolve the border stalemate once sworn in office. He said compared to Kaimenyi, it is now evident that Charity Ngilu was more committed to end the border row despite her not being from the region. &ldquo;Earlier when he was being impeached I stood firm to defend him though other leaders from Meru were silent on the matter, but the person I was defending is now throwing stones at me when I tell him to move with speed and help our community, how comes Ngilu&rsquo;s work is commendable than for the who is our very own,&rdquo; he said. Kindiki said the CS arrogance will do him more harm than good and should go slow. READ MORE Police officer in Sh3.5 million heist fails to take plea Bodyguard denies robbing Deputy Governor of Sh3.5 million Deputy Governor robbed of Sh3.5 million by bodyguard He rubbished claims by Kaimenyi that he had formed a committee to resolve the boundary issue in the two counties saying it was mere politics. Senator Kindiki said he was surprised that a committee to deal with critical land matters was formed without involving him as the local Senator and other Members of Parliament. &ldquo;Ministers of these days are civil servants they should be cautious not to politicize their offices, Kaimenyi should not be responding to me saying that I do not visit his office, what should I go to do in his office? Instead he is the one who should come to my office,&rdquo; agitated Kindiki said. On Saturday during the Ameru Professionals&rsquo; conference at Chuka University, Prof Kaimenyi dared Kindiki to impeach him saying land issues cannot be solved through incitements. Kaimenyi claimed a committee tasked to gather facts on the border issue had already reported back to his office. &ldquo;This dispute has been recurrent but we want to solve it once and for all. The committee did their work and I have already received the recommendations,&rdquo; the CS said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;