Jubilee Party has started talks to unite aspirants of Nairobi gubernatorial seat. Both President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy, William Ruto, are keen to wrestle the seat from Orange Democratic Movement (ODM). The two leaders are said to be whipping the aspirants to amicably settle on one candidate for the seat&nbsp; preferably before party nominations. A section of Jubilee leaders met on Tuesday evening in what sources say was the formative stage of bringing the aspirants together. Among those seeking Jubilee&#39;s ticket for the gubernatorial seat are Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko Mbuvi, Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa, Dagoretti South MP Dennis Waweru, Nominated MP Johnson Sakaja and former Starehe MP Bishop Margaret Wanjiru. Yesterday, Starehe MP Maina Kamanda, who is among those pushing for one Jubilee candidate said the party was determined to win the seat in&nbsp; 2017. READ MORE Governor Mvurya under pressure after defecting to Jubilee Orengo opposes IEBC invitation for bids to audit voter's register Kalonzo allies fight back over call to dissolve Wiper Party &quot;You know we have to strategise. It is in the interest of all of us, especially those of us in Nairobi, that we win that seat under Jubilee. That is the wish of the President and the Deputy President has told us as much, that we must win it by all means. he said. But the seasoned Nairobi politician appeared to appreciate the difficult task of having the five aspirants unanimously agree on one candidate. &quot;It looks like this could be decided ultimately in the nominations ballot. But then we must reach an agreement that those whose bid will fail at the primaries support whoever will win,&quot; he said. Former Starehe MP Bishop Margaret Wanjiru was even more reserved, only admitting that there were ongoing talks but saying that the official communication on the way forward will announced soon. &quot;We have been talking and we will continue talking. We want to come up with a team that will deliver Nairiobi,&quot; she said.