Doctors want to meet with Governor Kinuthia Mbugua to find a solution to the ongoing strike that has paralysed operations in public hospitals. The doctors said they were shocked that as the strike entered its second week, the governor did not seem to be aware of it or had chosen to ignore it. Acting South Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union (KMPDU) representative Hillary Kubai said the doctors would&nbsp;hold a peaceful protest as they sought audience with Mr Kinuthia today. &quot;We are not sure if the governor knows that patients are suffering in public hospitals. We want to speak to him to find a quick solution,&quot; said Dr Kubai. He said talks with Health Executive Mungai Kabii and his Chief Officer Samuel Mwaura, had been fruitless, adding that since the strike began on September 16, they had only met on September 16 and September 23. &quot;The previous meetings have not been successful and that is why we want Governor Kinuthia to intervene,&quot; he said. READ MORE Governor Mbugua under pressure over Nakuru woes The medics downed their tools demanding salaries for 32 doctors employed under the inter-governmental committee in April. The strike has left patients stranded in various public hospitals, with more than 10 reported to have died as a result of the strike. At Elburgon Hospital, only emergency cases are being handled. Hospital in Charge George Biketi said there were only five doctors at the hospital as all the others had opted to stay away, forcing him to respond to emergencies alone. &quot;The work is overwhelming because I am the only doctor handling patients. I have no option but to send some to private hospitals,&quot; said Dr Biketi. The situation was the same at Rift Valley Provincial General Hospital, which receives patients from neighbouring Bomet, Nyandarua, Samburu, Kericho and Baringo counties. &quot;We are here but there is nothing much we are doing without the doctors. Patients are not being given drugs because there are no pharmacists,&quot; said a nurse at the hospital. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;