Deputy President William Ruto yesterday launched a fresh attack on Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto and reassured Jubilee Party has no preferred candidates. The DP attacked the governor, who refused to join Jubilee Party, claiming he was seeking to sow seeds of discord among the Kalenjin. He also sought to dispel suggestions that he and President Uhuru had favourites in the upcoming party nominations. &quot;Let no one cheat you that we as the party leaders have preferred candidates for any seat even here in Bomet. It is the electorate who will pick candidates for Jubilee,&quot; Ruto said during a visit to Bomet. The contest for Jubilee Party&#39;s ticket for the Bomet governorship is heating up between National Assembly Deputy Speaker Joyce Laboso and former Konoin MP Julius Kones. The two are seeking to unseat Governor Ruto, who has stuck to his Chama Cha Mashinani (CCM) party. READ MORE Your days are numbered as governor, former MP warns Ruto Ruto: Jubilee Party was formed to unite Kenyans Ruto sues activist Boniface Mwangi for defamation There&#39;s disquiet among some Jubilee aspirants in Bomet after female Jubilee MPs toured the county recently, claiming they had been sent by President Kenyatta and his deputy to drum up support for Ms Laboso. Ruto clarified that all aspirants would have equal opportunities in the party. &quot;We will only endorse candidates after nomination but, as we speak, we do not have favourites for any seat. All those who have expressed interest are ours,&quot; Ruto added. Last week, Ruto gave the same assurance to aspirants for the Nairobi governorship Mike Sonko (Nairobi Senator), Dennis Waweru (Dagoretti MP) and former Starehe MP Margaret Wanjiru who had challenged him at a meeting in Eastleigh on Jubilee&#39;s nominations. Elected leaders and aspirants are opening parallel Jubilee Party branch offices and others have even declared themselves interim officials, hoping to gain an edge over rivals. New electoral rules bar defection after party nominations, which has made the fight for the tickets of the main parties a do-or-die affair. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;