Senators appear to have formed a common front to oust governors in next year&rsquo;s elections. Besides piling pressure on the governors to account for billions of shillings entrusted to them for development of their counties, the Senators now want to support their colleagues seeking gubernatorial seats. They exhibited this in Kisumu on Friday, where four CORD senators Anyang&rsquo; Nyong&rsquo;o, (Kisumu), Hassan Omar (Mombasa), James Orengo (Siaya) and Moses Kajwang&rsquo; ( Homa Bay) sensationally claimed governors had nothing to show for their four years in office. They joined Prof Nyong&rsquo;o as he launched his campaign to oust Governor Jack Ranguma during which they tore into the governors, saying they were a disappointment to Kenyans. They singled out governors from ODM strongholds who they accused of doing little to show the commitment of the party in showcasing the successes of devolution which Party leader Raila Odinga has been fighting for. They endorsed Nyong&rsquo;o saying he is best suited to effectively tackle the county&rsquo;s affairs. Also in attendance was Deputy Governor Ruth Odinga who has also declared her decision to run against her boss. The leaders said the incumbent leaders have failed to champion the purpose of devolution. Senator Omar said: &ldquo;Devolution has been squandered by marauding governors who neither know the value of devolved units nor appreciate it. READ MORE Jubilee party to transform into Uhuru's re-election vehicle for 2017 polls It's official: Waiguru joins Kirinyaga County gubernatorial race Fresh ODM elections team warns over chaos &ldquo;We shall not allow the promise (of devolution) to be procrastinated one more time. If it means a battle in Kisumu or anywhere else, we will help each other to root out the current governments so that we can fulfill this promise,&rdquo; Omar said. He said Kenyans continue to languish in poverty because of poor policies and bad governance. He accused governors of rampant graft in counties, which he claimed is greatly to blame for delayed implementation of devolution to benefit the wananchi. &ldquo;When you steal from us at the counties, you are not different from the Jubilee Government that steals from us at the national level,&rdquo; he said. Senator James Orengo said there was a vacuum in most of the gubernatorial offices. &ldquo;Do you want a governor who understands that his responsibilities is bringing services to the people or one who keeps all the resources to himself,&rdquo; he posed. He urged the electorates to pick leaders with impressive scorecards like Nyong&rsquo;o who was one of the crafters of devolution. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;