The clamour for ODM ticket in the Malindi parliamentary race is threatening to split the party. Woman Representative Aisha Jumwa&#39;s (pictured) declaration that she will contest the seat held by Willy Mtengo is causing jitters after Kilifi Senator Stewart Madzayo and Nominated MCA Anderson Ngombo declared their support for the MP. The two said they will fight tooth and nail to ensure Jumwa does not unseat Mtengo. Both Jumwa and Mtengo are ODM legislators. Jumwa is among several women representatives who have declared interest in parliamentary seats, which have a bigger kitty. Madzayo and Ngombo termed Jumwa&#39;s decision to go for the seat held by a fellow party member as selfish and vowed to launch an all-out war against her. It all started on Tuesday during a breakfast meeting at Governor Amason Kingi&#39;s home where Jumwa and Mtengo clashed over the seat. READ MORE Tension between two ODM MPs over Malindi seat Stand-off over rally venue quite unnecessary Grand posturing by ODM and Jubilee; where does that leave you? However, Kingi did not take sides only saying the two, both his close allies, must design their strategies to win the confidence of the electorate during the nominations. &quot;I will back the one the people will chose to contest the seat next year,&quot; Kingi said but warned Jumwa and Mtengo to ensure their differences do not give Jubilee an advantage. &quot;We campaigned for Mtengo during the by-election and he won. Next year, he will once again face the people during the nominations same as Jumwa. All we want is for the ODM family to remain intact so we can retain the Malindi seat,&quot; Kingi said. Madzayo led a group of grassroots leaders in castigating Ms Jumwa over her intention to wrestle the seat from Mtengo and also declared his unwavering support for the MP. A section of the delegation said they want a person who was born and bred in Malindi as their MP, branding Jumwa a &#39;foreigner&#39;. &quot;I have heard someone wants to change our line-up for 2017. Why should we change the winning team already with three goals up? Our team is complete. We have Governor Kingi, myself and our last born in Parliament, Mtengo,&quot; said Madzayo. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;