MACHAKOS: Efforts by the newly launched Jubilee Party (JP) to woo Ukambani residents into joining the new outfit has triggered a fresh political stand-off between its supporters and Wiper party loyalists. A meeting held last week between Gikuyu, Embu and Meru (Gema) elders and Akamba Clans Governing Council, with a view to getting the Kamba community to join JP, has generated a heated war of words among Ukambani politicians. On one side are MPs loyal to Wiper party leader and CORD co-principal Kalonzo Musyoka, who have rubbished reports of JP&#39;s success in making inroads the region, while on the other hand, are local legislators who have already announced their defection to the new party, saying time for opposition dominance in the region is over. Yatta MP Francis Mwangangi, his Mbooni counterpart Kisoi Munyao and Machakos Town legislator Victor Munyaka have endorsed the pact between Gema and Akamba Clans Governing Council and urged the community to move &quot;en masse&quot; to JP. The MPs, who are spearheading a campaign to pull out the Kamba voting bloc from the main opposition coalition, Cord argue that the community has nothing to gain by being in opposition. &quot;We want our people to wake up to the realisation that times have changed and we have to be ready to work with political blocs, which add value to our socio-political destiny as a community,&quot; said Mr Munyao. READ MORE Jubilee Party will redefine party politics Don't panic over my bid, Wamalwa tells aspirants Stand-off over rally venue quite unnecessary &quot;It is clear that President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto have demonstrated their willingness to develop Ukambani despite the region having voted for the opposition in the last general election,&quot; he added. Mr Munyao said there is no point of the community continuing to wallow in the opposition, which he claimed has nothing to offer to the community. His sentiments were echoed by Mr Mwangangi, who asked the Kamba community to refuse being confined in a regional political outfit in the name of a political party. &quot;We are telling our people it is time we play strategic politics and not politics of exclusion. We would be fools if we fail to support President Kenyatta ahead of next year&#39;s election because he has demonstrated willingness to develop our region,&quot; he said. Mr Mwangangi said the Jubilee government has injected billions of shillings into projects that are expected to transform the region&#39;s economic potential. But MPs allied to Kalonzo, including Stephen Mule (Matungulu) and Robert Mbui (Kathiani), have dismissed their counterparts who have defected to JP as &quot;political betrayers.&quot; GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;