A lawyer wants a judge to disqualify herself from a case where sacked employees have sued a sisal firm, saying there was a conflict of interest.&nbsp; Bernard Kipkoech, representing Migotiyo Plantations Limited, wants Employment and Labour Relations Court judge Monicah Mbaru to quit the case because of a suit she has filed against his partner in another matter. &ldquo;We are seeking your disqualification over the case you have filed against my partner due to conflict of interest,&rdquo; Mr Kipkoech said. However, Ms Mbaru asked the lawyer to make a formal application before she could consider it. Kipkoech had made an oral request. The case revolves around 324 employees who went on strike to protest the sacking of 20 of their colleagues. They refused to resume work to push for their colleagues&rsquo; reinstatement, claiming had been sacked unfairly. However, Migotiyo Plantations Limited maintained the strike was illegal and unprotected under the law. READ MORE Patients' agony as court declines to stop biting Nakuru doctors' strike Nairobi woman awarded Sh1m for sex abuse by her bosses The company&rsquo;s acting estate manager, Peter Kamau, said in a supporting affidavit they sent the striking workers memos to return to work but they declined. Mr Kamau said they also issued the workers with letters indicating they would face disciplinary action but they reportedly refused refused to turn up when they were required to do so. &ldquo;We dismissed three hundred and twenty four (324) employees via letters dated May 21, 2016, in which we explained why they were being summarily dismissed,&rdquo; Kamau&rsquo;s affidavit reply read. demanded DOCUMENTS However, lawyer Judith Guserwa for Kenya Plantation and Agricultural Workers Union, demanded documents in the case that sparked off controversy over alleged conflict of interest. She also wants an application for contempt against Migotiyo Human Resource Manager Lucy Njagi for the sackings that happened on May 21. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;