Elders of the Abduwak sub-clan have unanimously endorsed Ali Bunow Korane to challenge Garissa Governor Nathif Jama in 2017. Mr Korane narrowly lost to Mr Jama in the 2013 elections, after a division within the larger clan handed victory to the governor, who is from the Auliyan sub-clan. In a ceremony attended by hundreds of supporters and Abdulwak political leaders from the county at Bour Argy Primary School, the clan elders handed over a traditional walking stick to Korane to signify anointment for the governorship. Garissa County is dominated by Ogaden Somali community&rsquo;s sub-clans of Abdulwak, Auliyan and Samawathal. The county leaders, who included National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale and Balambala MP Abdikhadir Aden, vowed to vigorously campaign for Korane to ensure he wins. The former provincial commissioner and diplomat was picked by the Abdulwak Council of Elders in intense ongoing clan nominations. Korane strongly criticised Jama for allegedly tolerating widespread corruption in his administration, saying it had led to poor service delivery. He said residents lack basic necessities such as water, proper healthcare and infrastructure. READ MORE Munya: I will defeat Kiraitu next year and face Ruto in 2022 General Election Towards a peaceful General Election 2017 NTSA warns against speed gadgets tampering &ldquo;It is unfortunate that people are unable to get clean water and medical services from the local health facilities, which were available even before devolution,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;It beats logic to go thirsty or sick when the county receives Sh7 billion annually from the national coffers. Garissa County has been turned into a &lsquo;feeding trough&rsquo; for the current leadership and their few cronies.&rdquo; Mr Duale, who has been a critic of Jama&rsquo;s administration. &ldquo;As the political leaders of this county we are going to mobilise our resources and fully campaign for Korane so this county is saved from the current crises,&rdquo; the Garissa town MP said.