Failure to collect laboratory results for DNA and other tests from the Government Chemist has delayed the conclusion of murder, sexual assault and paternity cases in Nyanza. The Standard has established that 59 test results are still lying at the Western Kenya Government Chemist nearly two years since they were taken there by police officers handling the cases. Thirty-four of these results are tied to murder while 25 involvement defilement cases. The cases cannot be concluded without the laboratory results, which magistrates and judges rely on to make their rulings. An officer at the Government Chemist who preferred to remain anonymous explained that despite the test results being ready two weeks after submission of samples, they were uncollected. &quot;Testing samples and processing the results always takes at most two weeks depending on the case being handled. But a follow up on the results by the people (police) who take them to the labs is always slow,&quot; said the officer. Kisumu County Police Commander Titus Yoma termed the matter regrettable and accused the Government Chemist of failing to notify the police that results were ready for collection. READ MORE Pentagon confirms ISIS leader was killed in Aug. 30 air strike 6o year old man claims Ntimama is his father, demands DNA test Man, 46, wants court to stop Ntimama&rsquo;s burial &quot;They should have written to notify us that the results were ready,&quot; said Mr Yoma. &quot;We should not blame each other but instead work together to ensure that justice is served to the victims of defilement and murder,&quot; he added. The officer promised to ensure that the test results were collected. The revelations come amid growing concerns about the slow pace of justice for defilement victims as the number of minors in safe houses continues to rise in Western region. Child and human rights activists in the county now want the Judiciary to fast-track court processes to bring the culprits to book so that minors under protection can be allowed to return home. Late last month, Justice David Majanja revealed to The Standard that over 70 per cent of cases in the Court of Appeal in Kisumu had to do with defilement. He exonerated the Judiciary from blame concerning delays. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;