CORD leader Raila Odinga took his calls for the implementation of the Truth, Justice and Reconciliation Commission (TJRC) report to Kwale County, arguably the heartland of grave land injustices in Kenya. In a well-choreographed &ldquo;TJRC&rdquo; message which he, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and Kilifi&#39;s Amason Kingi delivered in doses,&nbsp;Raila roused locals, reading parts of the TJRC report and declaring that Jubilee cannot implement it. In a huge political rally held in Kwale, a stone&#39;s throw away from Governor Salim Mvurya&rsquo;s office, Raila urged Coast residents to insist on the return of &ldquo;dispossessed Coastal lands.&rdquo; He said the piecemeal issuance of title deeds was not enough. &ldquo;The game-changer for you is not the titles you are receiving for the small pieces you own individually. The game-changer is the restoration of huge parcels of land taken away from you by Arab rulers, the British and later the black colonialists who came after them,&rdquo; Raila said to wild cheers from the agitated crowd. Reading from the report, the ODM party leader condemned the fraudulent land transactions that have taken place with regard to Coast lands since independence and demanded revocation of all these transactions. He also demanded the opening up of all beach access lands. READ MORE Raila renews calls for government to implement TJRC report CORD in trouble over primaries as Wetang'ula party gives new demands Raila tells defectors to resign and seek fresh mandate Raila said although President Uhuru Kenyatta was given the report in May 2013, he has not acted on it&nbsp; &ldquo;because he lacks the will to do so&rdquo;. &ldquo;They cannot claim to implement the report in injury time. They will never do that and that is why we must remove them from power through the ballot next year. We not only have the solution, we have their medicine too,&rdquo; he said. When Joho&rsquo;s turn came, he dealt with historical economic marginalisation of the Coast region. He said the area&rsquo;s resources &mdash; long beach front, minerals and port facilities &mdash; have not resulted in meaningful benefits for the region. He claimed the upcoming Standard Gauge Railway is yet another plan to limit port operations and move them further into the mainland. He asked locals to brace themselves for job losses once the construction of the railway is complete. &ldquo;The plan is to make you poor so that you have to keep begging them when they come over. Open your eyes right now and make your voice heard,&rdquo; Joho said. When he took the microphone to speak, Kingi picked from where Raila had left off and reiterated the grievance of landlessness in the Coast region in general and Kwale in particular. He recited the history of dispossessions in Coast in various periods of history. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;