Chief Justice-designate David Maraga will have to convince Members of Parliament that he is suitable to lead the Judiciary before he is formally appointed to the position. The Justice and Legal Affairs committee will vet Justice Maraga and table a report in the National Assembly for approval or rejection of the proposal for appointment. The public will get an opportunity to participate in the final vetting process before President Uhuru Kenyatta can formally appoint Justice Maraga as Chief Justice of Kenya and President of the Supreme Court. Upon his formal appointment, the judge will also assume the role of chairman of the Judicial Service Commission; the same body that interviewed him for the CJ job. But the vetting and possible assumption of office may come as late as end of October or even early November because the National Assembly is on recess until October 4. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi yesterday said the House would be awaiting communication from the President on the proposal for appointment before it can act. READ MORE A sample of Justice Maraga&rsquo;s court rulings Interview answers that earned the Court of Appeal Judge a top job at the Judiciary Embattled judge contests tribunal's verdict to oust him &ldquo;It is only after we have received the communication that we can assume our constitutional responsibility, first by placing the matter before the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee, which will consider the suitability of the candidate for appointment. The committee will then bring its report to the House and it will be upon members to decide his fate,&rdquo; said Mr Muturi. The Constitution, under Article 166(1) (a), requires that the presidential appointee for the positions of CJ and Deputy CJ must have the approval of the National Assembly before they are formally appointed by the President to the positions. Other judges are exempted from the scrutiny of Parliament and assume office immediately after the appointment. The Constitutional Court declared unconstitutional amendments to the Judicial Service Commission Act by the National Assembly that sought to have the JSC forward three names to the President who would pick one nominee whose name he would then forward to the House. Justice and Legal Affairs committee vice chair Priscilla Nyokabi said vetting by the committee would be guided by the Parliamentary Vetting and Approval Act, where they will consider all parameters required for the position of CJ. &ldquo;We will look of course into the suitability, education and integrity issues to form the basis of our report. According to the law, we must place an advert inviting members of public to participate in the process,&rdquo; explained Ms Nyokabi. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;