The hunter became the hunted yesterday after 10 Mombasa MCAs&nbsp;who were investigating impurities in bottled water were accused of receiving&nbsp;a Sh1 million bribe. Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission officers pounced on the 10,&nbsp;who are members of the County Assembly&rsquo;s Health committee, during&nbsp;a tour of the bottling plant in Mtwapa and allegedly recovered some&nbsp;money from them. The MCAs, however, denied the accusations, claiming their arrest&nbsp;was a political ploy to intimidate them.Ten MCAs from the Mombasa County Assembly yesterday found themselves on the receiving end over claims of bribery. The MCAs on an inspection tour of a water bottling company in Kilifi came face-to-face with sleuths from the anti-corruption agency, who had been tipped on a bribery claim at the factory. The assembly&#39;s Health Committee members were said to have received a Sh1 million bribe from the company, money meant to influence their findings in an investigation where the company&#39;s bottled water allegedly had impurities. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) officers claimed the MCAs had received a bribe from an officer at the plant. READ MORE You have failed our people, Ngilu tells Malombe Francis Atwoli tells EACC to keep off pensions fund Governor Lusaka denounces firm in tender row The MCAs, however, disputed the claim and said someone was attempting to intimidate them while investigating the source of the alleged impurities in bottled water. The 10 MCAs left the assembly in a bus with technical county staff intending to seek answers but as they began to tour the plant, they were confronted by EACC officers who subjected them to a body search. A bitter exchange followed but the EACC officers appeared firm. Led by committee chairman Kibwana Swaleh Baya (Miritini), the leaders were later summoned to the EACC offices where they recorded statements over the matter. EACC officers said on searching the MCAs, they retrieved Sh115,000 but could not immediately link it to bribery but investigations were ongoing. AFFECTED MEMBERS Simon Cherpka, EACC acting deputy director for the lower Coast region, said members and other parties had recorded statements but declined to give more information. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;