Four rebel MPs have once again failed to honour summonses by the Orange Democratic Movement&rsquo;s (ODM) disciplinary committee. MPs Gideon Mung&rsquo;aro (Kilifi North), Mustafa Iddi (Kilifi South), James Rege (Karachuonyo) and Mpuru Aburi (Tigania East) did not appear before the committee yesterday to explain why they should not be expelled after announcing they had joined President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s Jubilee Party (JP). The party wrote to 13 elected leaders who defected, asking them to show cause why they should not be de-registered. But only nine appeared before the disciplinary panel and vowed not to be shaken by the threat to expel them or subject them to by-elections. The ODM members vowed not to cede ground, even as the party firmed up its punishment process. &ldquo;The party should know that we also have our rights of expression. Not even their slightest decision will affect us. I was elected by the people not because of the party I chose, but because the people needed good leadership which I have,&rdquo; said Nakuru Town MP Samuel Arama shortly after facing the disciplinary panel. READ MORE ODM fights to lock out Jubilee in Kisii Governor Mvurya under pressure after defecting to Jubilee ODM demands unconditional release of Nyando MP Fred Outa The MP termed calls by ODM that he quits for a re-lection as baseless and ill-advised. &ldquo;Only the electorate can guide our fate, not cheap party politics. We are not shaken as our aim is to impact the society through good leadership,&rdquo; he said. Lawyer Kioko Kilukumi, representing the politicians, told ODM&rsquo;s five-member disciplinary committee that the four leaders skipped the meeting because they are out of the country. Rigorous process He said, however, that de-registering them will call for a rigorous process, which will take time to complete. &ldquo;Before the members are de-registered, the Political Parties Tribunal, the High Court and the Court of Appeal shall be involved before moving to a by-election,&rdquo; he said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;