West Pokot Senator John Lonyangapuo has been installed as the Pokot community&rsquo;s spokesperson, 16 years after the death of fiery former Cabinet minister Francis Lotodo, who last held the position. In an elaborate ceremony conducted on Saturday, community elders dressed Prof Lonyangapuo in a lion skin, complete with tail, and a traditional Pokot cap made from black ostrich feathers, before pronouncing blessings on him to spearhead the community&rsquo;s interests. During the day-long event known locally as Alim and only attended by men, two bulls were speared to death by members of Lonyangapuo&rsquo;s family on the banks of River Amaya. The meat was roasted over an open fire and served to those in attendance. Disrupt Ceremony Before the actual ceremony, elders went over Lonyangapuo&rsquo;s background, leadership qualities, generosity and emphasis on the importance of education and livestock to the community. The senator, seated on a traditional stool and surrounded by hundreds of elders and young men, was smeared with bull fat on the head, face and chest by one of the elders. READ MORE Why 2017 is hard tackle for Jubilee Pence says evidence points to Russia in email hacks Brace for a massive defeat, DP Ruto tells Opposition Earlier, Jubilee Party supporters led by Churo/Amaya ward Member of the County Assembly Thomas Minito had tried to disrupt the ceremony but were repulsed. Ripkwo ward MCA Daniel Tuwit said Lonyangapuo was the third person to go through the ritual after former President Daniel arap Moi was accorded the honour in Nginyang in 1978 and Lotodo in 1985. Lotodo was feared for his fearless stand on matters that touched on the community. &ldquo;Like his predecessors, he has established schools and resolved conflicts between the community and their neighbours. This is the greatest respect accorded him by the Pokot people. This is a man who has given his all for the people he leads,&rsquo;&rsquo; said Mr Tuwit. Leaders, who included former Information minister Samuel Poghisio, lauded the community&rsquo;s choice of Lonyangpuo as their leader. Embrace Tolerance GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;