A 30-year-old mother of two is nursing serious injuries after her husband allegedly cut off her left hand and cut her face and right leg. Speaking at the Meru Referral and Teaching Hospital yesterday, Liz Kathambi, told the The Standard that her husband, Patrick Kagundu, traced her to her home, where she had sought refuge upon suspecting he was up to no good. Ms Kathambi, from Kibuline in Tigania West Sub-county, was yesterday in a ward after being transferred from the theatre where she was stitched because of deep cuts to her forehead, and both cheeks. &nbsp;&quot;I ran back to my parents&#39; home after seeing the manner my husband cut our pig. He slaughtered it very angrily while he was drunk, and I thought it wise to seek safety with my parents,&quot; a tearful Kathambi said at her hospital bed yesterday. Her husband is yet to be arrested, although the chief and local police are looking for him. &quot;We had exchanged harsh words on Monday so I ran home after seeing the manner in which he slaughtered our pig,&quot; Kathambi said, pointing at her injured leg with her left hand which is now stump. READ MORE Jubilee Party to conduct its polls after 2017 elections Auditor General report claims State owed Sh21 billion in loans granted to firms StanChart cuts African private equity team A finger on her left hand was also completely severed. &nbsp;&quot;I was at home when I and a friend saw my husband coming, so I locked the door from inside because my parents were not around. But he broke in, and with a machete he cut my hands, face and leg,&quot; she claimed. Neighbours who were attracted by her screams came to her aid but the husband escaped. &nbsp;Stella Njeru, a nurse, said Kathambi also suffered a broken jaw and eye injuries. &quot;She was hit with a blunt object on her jaw. She bled a lot and received three points of blood. She also suffered deep trauma but we are counselling her. She is stabilising now,&quot; Ms Njeru said. A woman identified as Rebecca Nkirote is also nursing injuries after her husband scalded her back and stomach. And Eugenia Kiringo, a teacher at Nkubu High School, is recuperating after her husband, also a teacher, allegedly attempted to strangle her. Eugenia has since filed for divorce. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;