&nbsp; {Photo:Courtesy} Washington:Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump, facing eroding support from his party over lewd remarks about women, goes into a second presidential debate with Democrat Hillary Clinton on Sunday needing to demonstrate he remains a credible candidate. The pressure on the 70-year-old Trump at the debate will be intense. Not only must he parry attacks from Clinton and explain why he is a better alternative. He must also show an apologetic side to stop more Republican supporters from giving up on him. Trump already had an uphill battle to win the White House in the Nov. 8 election before disclosure of a 2005 video in which he could be heard talking crudely about women. A Reuters-Ipsos poll had Clinton leading by five points on Friday, before the video surfaced. Now, the question is whether Trump&#39;s quest for the presidency is all but over. The fresh controversy adds an air of unpredictability over the 9 p.m. EDT debate at Washington University in St. Louis, the second of three scheduled presidential debates as the long-running U.S. election contest enters its final weeks. READ MORE Trump vows to stay in race after calls for him to quit over lewd remarks Trump backs off praise of Russia's Putin after debate Trump says he 'brilliantly' used U.S. tax laws It will be a town hall-style debate with undecided voters posing half the questions and the debate&#39;s two moderators posing the others. His vice presidential running mate, Mike Pence, said on Sunday that Trump needs to show contrition. &quot;We pray for his family and look forward to the opportunity to show what is in his heart when he goes before the nation tomorrow night,&quot; Pence said in a statement. The crisis has put the Republican National Committee in a tight spot with less than a month to go until Election Day. Trump would have to resign the nomination to allow Republican leaders to choose a successor, but the New York businessman is showing no signs of stepping down despite increasing calls from elected leaders for him to let Pence become the nominee. &quot;The media and establishment want me out of the race so badly - I WILL NEVER DROP OUT OF THE RACE, WILL NEVER LET MY SUPPORTERS DOWN!&quot; Trump tweeted on Sunday from Trump Tower in New York. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;