A political duel is in the offing in Trans Nzoia County as Jubilee Party leaders mount campaigns to lure residents. Trans Nzoia and Bungoma counties are perceived as Ford Kenya strongholds but Water and Irrigation Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa and Jubilee allies have intensified campaigns to take control of the region. Ford Kenya leadership in Trans Nzoia County has kicked off a membership recruitment drive amid growing popularity of the Jubilee Party. The party recently lost a key figure - Mr Maurice Bisau to Jubilee. Bisau was expected to clinch the party ticket for the gubernatorial seat. He crossed over to Jubilee after reports that the party intended to give Governor Patrick Khaemba a direct nomination to defend his position. Ford Kenya Party officials recently met at the home of Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa to draft strategies to counter infiltration of Jubilee Party in the area. READ MORE Eseli warns Ford Kenya leaders against infighting Leaders divided on whether PNU will be a liability or asset to Jubilee Ford Kenya delegates deny endorsing Wetangula as flag bearer Addressing journalists after the meeting, Dr Wamalwa said a series of recruitment exercises have been planned. &ldquo;We met with officials to map out strategies of popularising the party through membership registration and determine how we are going to capture elective seats,&rdquo; he said. Kwanza MP Ferdinand Wanyonyi urged supporters to ignore tactics being used by Jubilee leaders to lure them. &ldquo;Ignore those luring you to join Jubilee Party as they want to kill democracy to safeguard their personal interests,&rdquo; Mr Wanyonyi said. Water CS has in the recent past led by MPs David Wafula and Janet Nangabo attempted to campaign for Jubilee in the region. Bisau claimed that Ford Kenya supporters are planning to defect to Jubilee before next year&rsquo;s elections. &ldquo;Many Ford Kenya supporters have agreed to join Jubilee and soon you are going to see mass defections,&rdquo; said Bisau. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;