Former President Kibaki&rsquo;s Party of National Unity (PNU) has begun receiving subtle and public endorsements as a beneficial alternate for Jubilee Party in next year&rsquo;s General Elections. Current and former allies of the former president, PNU-allied politicians and political observers claim that PNU&rsquo;s place as an independent party supporting President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s re-election may boost voter turn-out especially in Jubilee strongholds. The dyed-in-the-wool Jubilee converts however aver that the presidential ticket is the one which will pull voters into polling stations and that candidates at the county levels, including those vying on PNU ticket, will benefit from the situation. Voter turn-out is an important variable in presidential elections especially closely-called ones. In the 2013 polls, the unprecedented voter turn-out of 85.6 per cent was largely credited with Jubilee&rsquo;s slim and contested win over CORD. In President Kenyatta&rsquo;s Central Kenya strongholds, voter turn-out was as high as 95 per cent as people took it as do-or-die affair for their candidate. &ldquo;The circumstances of 2013 were unique in the sense that people had certain imagined fears over what was going on at that moment,&quot; Nderitu Muriithi, PNU founder member said. READ MORE Jubilee starts talks to unite gubernatorial aspirants Narok is now a Jubilee stronghold, Governor Tunai warns ODM ODM fights to lock out Jubilee in Kisii &quot;In the current scheme of things and with change of circumstances, you need stiff competition at county levels to trigger high voter turn-out. The last thing one should think of is to kill parties much less those in Jubilee strong-holds.&quot; Mr Muriithi, a nephew to Kibaki, said it is in the best interests of top Jubilee leaders that PNU is left to thrive on its own and in accordance with the wishes of its members. He said a situation where only one JP candidate is nominated to contest will breed voter apathy to the detriment of Kenyatta. &ldquo;We are not simply saying this because we are in PNU. These are cold facts which are appreciated by every sane politician who is not looking at things with blinkers on. This is partly why only one wing of the JP machinery is fighting PNU because they are looking at elections beyond 2017. They do not appear to know that we must first win 2017,&rdquo; he added. David Murathe, Jubilee Party&rsquo;s vice-chairman and a close ally of the president is however categorical that PNU &ldquo;does not add or remove any value&rdquo; in Jubilee. The same sentiments are shared by Kiharu MP Kang&rsquo;ata Irungu. &ldquo;PNU does not matter in our calculations. As a matter of fact, the much we know is that PNU was among the parties that merged with JP in a public event witnessed by millions of Kenyans across the world. Some people have challenged the merger and the matter is awaiting arbitration,&rdquo; Mr Murathe said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;