SIAYA, KENYA: Four relatives died after eating suspected poisonous cassava in Bar Agulu village of Siaya County. Vivian Juliet (15), Steven Otieno (13), Christine Faith (11) and Calvince Otieno (8) were pupils at Barding Primary School. Another victim, Rosely Flavia, is in critical condition at the Siaya County Referral Hospital. The five were said to have consumed the cassava, which they harvested from their parents&#39; farm, on Saturday morning. According to Dr Chengek Chemungu who attended to the children before they died on Sunday morning, three arrived in critical condition but later died before 4am on Sunday. He said one of the children had died at a private facility in Baragulu and was taken to the county referral mortuary when they arrived at the hospital around 3am. RECEIVING TREATMENT READ MORE Lack of drugs and unqualified staff hampering services in Siaya Seize the moment to end hunger globally One in five Africans are underfed due to climate impact on farming &quot;We managed to treat the mother and two other children who also complained of stomach and lower back pain but the other three were critical and died while being treatment. We have already allowed the mother and one of her daughters to go home but Flavia is still getting treatment,&quot; confirmed the doctor. Dr Chemungu established that the family had eaten poisonous cassava on Saturday morning, prompting the illness. Speaking to The Standard at their Baragulu home, Penina Ouma, the mother of the four deceased children, narrated her last moments with them. She said the family had listened to the radio up to 10.30pm on Saturday night before one of her children began complaining of a stomach ache. &quot;My children loved dancing and because there was a music programme on a local radio station, I had asked them to dance for a fee. I had promised that whoever won would get Sh20 from me,&quot; recalled Ms Ouma. &quot;When one started complaining of a stomach ache, we didn&#39;t think it was serious. But my little boy kept complaining and then he started vomiting and shaking. I realised there was something very wrong.&quot; GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;