The teachers&rsquo; employer has started salary talks with unions, signalling peaceful times for the education sector, as national examinations approach. Teaches Service Commission senior management staff yesterday held separate meetings with the two teachers&rsquo; unions and agreed on a negotiation formula. Officials of the Kenya National Union of Teachers and Kenya Union of Post-Primary Education Teachers expressed confidence in the talks and said that a new pay deal should be sealed by end of next month. &ldquo;We have removed all the roadblocks to these talks and we have also seen all indications from TSC that they want to see a speedy conclusion of the talks,&rdquo; Wilson Sossion, the Knut Secretary General, said. Kuppet and Knut have placed two separate proposals demanding a basic salary increase of between 200 and 300 per cent. If adopted, the highest-paid secondary school teacher will take home Sh605,960 per month and the lowest-paid under Job Group J will earn Sh73,986. READ MORE 7,000 teachers promoted after rigorous interviews Unionist rejects directive on KCPE and KCSE exams Headteacher commits suicide to protest 'forceful' transfer The lowest-paid primary school teacher (Job Group G) would take home Sh50,016 with the highest-paid (Job Group R) earning Sh289,856 per month. Fat allowances Kuppet also proposes that teachers who have attained higher qualifications &ndash; Masters degree and above &ndash; be paid a postgraduate allowance at the rate of 40 per cent of the new basic salary. In addition, secondary school teachers want an equivalent of half their basic pay for house and hardship allowances payable at the rate of 30 per cent of the proposed new basic salary. On their part, Knut is pushing for a review of a raft of allowances &ndash; responsibility, housing, commuter, leave and medical &ndash; in addition to other professional issues to be considered during talks. KNUT wants newly recruited teachers to get a one-month salary advance to be recovered during the first six months of employment. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;