NAIROBI: At least 24 elected leaders from six registered political parties face a by election if the process to kick them out of the parties is successful. Opposition parties have signaled the start of a mini general election by taking the first step of the disciplinary process of members who defected to Jubilee. Orange Democratic Movement (ODM), Wiper Democratic Movement and Ford Kenya party that forms the Coalition for Reforms and Democracy (CORD) has moved to crack the whip on the defectors and send them to an early mini poll. Party has moved to crack the whip on the members who defected to the newly launched Jubilee Party. In a move likely to be a showdown between the parties and the renegade legislators, the ODM&#39;s disciplinary committee has written to its 13 members who have public declared their defection to another political party to show-cause why they should not be de-registered from the party. Governors Ukur Yatani (Marsabit), Salim Mvurya (Kwale) Deputy Governor Joash Maangi (Kisii), MPs Steven Kariuku (Mathare), Mpuri Aburi (Tigania East), Gideon Mungaro (Kilifi North), Mustafa Iddi (Kilifi South), Cyprian Kubai (Igembe Central) and James Rege (Karachuonyo). Others include Samuel Arama (Nakuru Town West), John Waluke (Sirisia) nominated MP Isaac Mwaura and Kwale County Woman Representative Zainabu Chidzuga. &quot;The Disciplinary Committee of the ODM has written to 13 members of the party who have publicly declared their defection to another political party to show-cause why they should not be de-registered from the party,&quot; said ODM Disciplinary Committee chair Fred Athuok. READ MORE Work together to win Nairobi governor seat, Uhuru tells aspirants Jubilee Party supporters join ODM Jubilee Party scramble threatens new outfit On Tuesday, Mr Athuok told the Standard that the law on Political parties is clear and will send the resolution to the Registrar of Political parties. In letters written to each of the 13 members of the party and copied to the Registrar of Political Parties Lucy Ndung&#39;u, Mr Athuok cited section (5) C of the Political Parties Act as having been blatantly violated by their action. &quot;This is simply a by-election. The law is clear that you cannot belong to two political parties at the same time. If you participates or joins another political party while still a member of a political party, you are deemed to have joined that party,&quot; said Mr Athuok. The letters have been sent to individual members via registered post and are expected to respond in writing within seven days failure to which, the Committee shall recommend to the party&#39;s National Executive Committee (NEC) that such members be expelled from the party for violating the Law and the Constitution of the party. In effecting the expulsion, necessary steps will be taken with the respective County, Parliamentary Senate Speakers and the IEBC to declare the seats vacant and necessitate by-elections. Even though both ODM and Ford Kenya threatened to kick the rebels out, Mr Kalonzo challenged the defectors from his party to prove that they can be re-elected in a by election. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;