MOMBASA: The Government owes the county Sh62 billion in unpaid land rates, parking fees and other essential services. Speaking at the Voyager Beach Resort &amp; Spa, Mombasa County yesterday, Governor Evans Kidero said his administration will now be compelled to seek legal redress to have the debt settled. &quot;Just imagine what my administration would have done with this kind of money in its coffers. The national government has remained adamant despite several reminders to have the money paid,&quot; Dr Kidero said. The governor also hinted that his administration is working towards trimming its high workforce to 7,000. Presently, the county employs over 13,000 people. The governor was speaking when he officiated the start of a five-day retreat for the assembly members. The MCAs are taking stock of the Bills and motions passed since 2015, and reports on committee recommendations. READ MORE Fines set for dogs that bark more than six minutes in new Nairobi rules Why deputy governors in Kenya need clear roles Nairobi county leadership has failed our children Since its inception in 2013, the assembly has passed 16 Bills, which have been assented to by the governor. Some of the passed Bills include The Nairobi County Appropriation Act, 2013, the Nairobi City County Finance Act, 2013, Nairobi City County Provisional Collection of Revenue Act, 2013, the Nairobi City County Tax Waivers Administration Act, 2013 and the Nairobi City County Flag and other Symbols Act, 2013. Others include the Nairobi City County Wards Development Fund Act, 2013, the Nairobi City County Alcoholic Drinks Control and Licensing Act, 2014, the Nairobi City County Betting, Lotteries and Gaming Act, 2014 and the Nairobi City County Supplementary Appropriation Act, 2014. Regulations that have been passed include the Public Finance Management (Nairobi City County Assembly Mortgage Scheme Fund) Regulations and the Public Finance Management (Nairobi City County Assembly Car Loan Scheme Fund) Regulations. Kidero said there are a number of legislative proposals that are being drafted and are due to be tabled in the assembly soon. The meeting will also assess the implementation status of passed motions during the third session and discuss the way forward to ensure the implementation of the passed resolutions from the first session to date. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;