Jubilee Alliance Party (JAP) will be transformed into Jubilee Party (JP) in a three-day event billed as the biggest political statement, the ruling coalition hopes will build a momentum for re-election. Yesterday, JAP Secretary General Veronica Maina procedurally announced in the local dailies their intention to amend the party&rsquo;s name, change officials, symbol, slogan and colour, rules and regulations. &ldquo;Notice is hereby given that Jubilee Alliance Party (JAP), a fully registered political party, wishes to amend... constitution, rules, and regulations, title, name and address of the party officials, name, symbol, slogan and colour in accordance with section 20 of the Political Parties Act 2011,&rdquo; reads the advert. Party symbol The symbol of the party will be two hands holding each other and both red and yellow colours previously used and a dove with red, black, green colours perched on a horn. The party plans to retain the marriage of the &ldquo;I believe&rdquo; and the &ldquo;Kusema na Kutenda&rdquo; motto. Plans for the launch of JP are in top gear and among those invited for the event at Moi International Sports Centre Kasarani are top regional and a few international musicians to add colour. Details of who have been invited are, however, still a closely guarded secret. READ MORE Delegates&rsquo; row threatens to mar Jubilee launch Governor Ruto says his new party will take over from URP New lending rates to hit long-term projects, CMA warns The Standard on Sunday has learnt that several artists have been booked and agreements entered for them to entertain delegates for the three days. The artists will include several from Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania. Registrar of Political Parties Lucy Ndung&rsquo;u said her office had been notified of the planned national delegates meetings to dissolve political parties and the subsequent merger. In an interview with The Standard on Sunday, Ndung&rsquo;u said after the dissolution, each party will present the resolution documents to her office. &ldquo;After signing the documents, to enable the merger to be finalised, they are required by law to have transitional clauses that will include the interim officials and interim structures of the new party if any until proper elections are held under the party&rsquo;s constitution,&rdquo; said Ms Ndung&rsquo;u. The world renowned political parties that have been invited for the launch include the ruling Chinese Communist Party (CCP), Republican Party from the United States and South Africa&rsquo;s ANC. Others include Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) of Tanzania and Uganda President Yoweri Museveni&rsquo;s National Resistant Movement (NRM). GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;