ODM leader Raila Odinga intensified his presidential campaigns in Narok County with a call to the Maasai community to rally behind him in the 2017 General Election. Raila who kicked off his one-day tour in Kilgoris town, told ODM supporters to adopt the six-piece voting system to ensure the Opposition wins the August 8 polls with a landslide. The Coalition for Reforms and Democracy (CORD) leader accused the Government of neglecting members of the Maa community citing lack of development and failure to address land issues in Maasai land. &quot;The Maasai community has very good reasons to vote against the Jubilee government next year. Jubilee has neglected you and stolen your land through cartels in the government,&quot; Raila said. He claimed the government was planning to hive off a huge chunk of the Mau Forest for allegedly creating a tea plantation to act as a buffer zone between the forest and private land. &quot; As the opposition we will be on the look out, if they try to grab Mau Forest we will resist it at all cost,&quot; he said. He said if Jubilee had the interest of the community at heart, it should implement the findings of the Truth, Justice and Reconciliation Commission (TJRC). READ MORE Top lawyer writes to Raila over defectors as party meets Raila's party meets over defectors End party infighting in county, Ugunja MP urges Raila &quot; The report was released in May 2013 but up to now parliament is yet to deal with it. Jubilee has less than 10 months to vacate office get they have not done anything,&quot; he said adding that if he wins the next elections, he will give it priority. Addressing local Leaders and aspirants for various elective posts at St Joseph Mission Hospital Hall, Raila said the ruling Jubilee Coalition has failed to fulfill the pledges of made to the people and should be voted out. Raila&#39;s tour of the county come two weeks after Mr Odinga&#39;s clash with President Uhuru Kenyatta during the burial of former Cabinet minister William ole Ntimama. He addressed rallies in Kilgoris, Narok West and Emurua Dikirr constituencies. The former prime minister wa me accompanied by His party chairman John Mbadi, deputy chairman Christine Lemiso, party director of election Junet Mohammed, Homa Bay MP Gladys Wanga, Kitutu Masaba MP Timothy Bosire and the party&#39;s Youth League chairman John Ketora. Also present were MPs Oyugi Magwanga, TJ Kajwang among other leaders from the neighboring counties. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;