Deputy President William Ruto yesterday urged Jubilee supporters to remain steadfast in the party and popularise it at the grassroots. He said the party was formed to bring all Kenyans together and to eradicate divisive politics. &ldquo;As members of the Jubilee Party, we want modern and progressive politics that will unite all Kenyans,&rdquo; the Deputy President said. &ldquo;We should be steadfast in Jubilee.&rdquo; Ruto added: &ldquo;That is why we said we should bring all parties together to form Jubilee that will provide a unified voice and consolidate the country&rsquo;s focus on development.&rdquo; The DP called on all Kenyans to ignore politicians who are bent on propagating hatred, disunity and tribalism. He was speaking yesterday during a women empowerment programme in Rongai, Nakuru County. &ldquo;We are focused on transforming the country by uniting all Kenyans. Our aim is to ensure that Kenyans live together and are not divided along tribal, religious or political lines,&rdquo; he said. READ MORE Our tours in opposition areas bearing fruit, claims DP William Ruto ODM defectors fail to honour summons citing their security at Orange House No more new schools for now, says DP Ruto He assured residents of the Jubilee government&rsquo;s commitment to improve their lives by implementing development projects across the country. He said Nakuru County has benefitted from specialised medical equipment provided by the National Government at the Nakuru Level Five and Naivasha Level Four hospitals at a cost of Sh725 million and Sh380 million respectively. To support vulnerable groups, the Deputy President said the government has expanded its cash transfer programme and now assists more than 5,300 elderly people and orphans at a cost of Sh465 million in Nakuru County. Ruto was accompanied by MPs Joseph Kiuna (Njoro), Moses Cheboi (Kuresoi North) and Kimani Ngunjiri (Bahati). The Nakuru County Speaker Susan Kihika and Deputy Governor Joseph Ruto were also present. The leaders affirmed their support for the new party and vowed to popularise it. They said ongoing road and other development projects will be accelerated to boost the county&rsquo;s economy.