Mombasa is set for massive protests today over extra-judicial killings,&nbsp;as the world observes the International Day of the Disappeared. Yesterday, Governor Hassan Joho led political, religious and civil society&nbsp;leaders in condemning the killing of a 16-year-old boy by police. He&nbsp;will lead today&rsquo;s demo to protest the killing of Tony Kenga, among others.&nbsp; Coast politicians will today lead demonstrations to protest against the killing of a 16-year-old student. Tony Katana Kenga was shot dead by police as he left a wedding party on the night of August 12, 2016. Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and three Mombasa MPs Badi Twalib (Jomvu), Mishi Mboko (Woman Representative) and Rashid Bedzimba (Kisauni) condemned the police and demanded that action be taken against those responsible. And Haki Africa, a Mombasa-based civil society group,&nbsp;has teamed up with families of those felled by police in mysterious circumstances to institute public interest litigation in a bid to get justice for victims of alleged extrajudicial killings. READ MORE Kisumu police shoot 3 in road rage with motorists Two police officers arrested over murder of man inside hospital Man kills son in row with estranged wife Haki Africa Executive Director Hussein Khalid said a team of lawyers, to be led by Yusuf Aboubakar, will institute the legal proceedings. &quot;We are seeing a trend on such killings allegedly committed by officers vested with the sole responsibility of ensuring our safety. We call upon all relatives of victims of extra-judicial killings and enforced disappearances to come forward and share their cases so that they can be litigated,&quot; Mr Khalid said. Mr Joho, who addressed a press conference at Haki Africa offices, criticised officers at&nbsp;Nyali Police Station&nbsp;for failing to record a statement from Katana&#39;s mother, Ruth Syombua.&nbsp; &quot;I am today (yesterday) personally heading to Nyali Police Station to compel police to record a statement (from Ms Syombua),&quot; Joho said. The county chief said he had been dully informed that Katana had little use of his arms after he was involved in an accident two years ago. Joho announced that the county government had waived mortuary fees for Katana&#39;s family and would help meet funeral expenses. Katana will be buried in Kitui County on Saturday. Mr Bedzimba wondered why police were shooting suspects instead of arresting them. &quot;Why do we have judicial court&#39;s if they cannot be used to dispense justice?&quot; the lawmaker posed. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;