A governor is on the spot for not spending money allocated for development. Meru Governor Peter Munya yesterday appeared before the Senate Public Accounts and Investment Committee to explain why the county spent less than half of the Sh2.8 billion allocated for development expenditure, leaving Sh2.2 billion unused. This was the first time the governor was responding to audit queries raised by Auditor General Edward Ouko, who questioned why the county spent only Sh650 million out of the allocated Sh2.8 billion on development, resulting in the under-utilisation of Sh2.2 billion. Mr Munya, through his Finance executive Muthomi Kireira, admitted that there were discrepancies in the budget and requested more time to reconcile the matter with the audit team. The governor told the committee that his administration had created a country revenue board that assisted in the collection of revenue by sealing tax loopholes. &quot;In the last quarter, through the board, indications are that we are improving tremendously. We actually boosted our collection by Sh7 million,&quot; he said. READ MORE MCAs pass bill that seeks to improve healthcare Governor Ruto quizzed by Senate team on audit gaps Former journalist Angela Angwenyi quizzed over Sh302 million tender Actual relevance However, the auditor&#39;s report indicates that the county&#39;s actual revenue collection of Sh5,311,634,915 fell short of the estimated target of Sh5,681,680,382 by Sh370,045,467. Munya denied that his administration incurred an expenditure of Sh2 billion without the approval of the Controller of Budget. Sharp differences between Munya and Kiambu Senator Kimani Wamatangi temporarily disrupted the proceedings. Trouble started when the senator accused Munya of making disparaging remarks about him and the watchdog committee in public forums last week. The senator had visited Meru at the invitation of his colleague, Senator Kiraitu Murungi, and said that governors who did not honour Senate committee summons risked being arrested. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;