Three governors have been ordered to reinstate and compensate members of their county executive for unfair dismissal. The Industrial Court ordered Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto to pay two sacked officers Sh8 million while his Nyeri counterpart Nderitu Gachagua is to pay Sh4.5 million to one employee. Tharaka Nithi&rsquo;s Samuel Ragwa was ordered to reinstate an officer he dismissed. The Employment and Labour Relations court in Nakuru ordered that Elizabeth Lang&rsquo;at and Patricia Lasoi from Bomet be compensated a total of Sh8.56 milion in damages after they were sacked in August 2015. The court further awarded them one year gross wages. The two had moved to court under a certificate of urgency seeking orders to prevent Governor Ruto from sacking them. They were, however, served with letters of dismissal on March 30, 2016. Lasoi, who was then the county executive for Lands, Housing and Urban Development, was informed that she had failed to ensure proper management of urban centres, leading to the mushrooming of unapproved structures. The letter indicated that she had continuously performed below par despite continuous warnings. READ MORE Senate unanimously saves Gachagua from impeachment Nyeri MCAs: Our case against Governor Gachagua is solid Nyeri hospital laundry machine breaks down Langat&rsquo;s dismissal letter indicated that she had performed poorly as the executive in charge of Agriculture and Fisheries. She was also accused of being absent from duty without justifiable reasons. Her letter cited her for misconduct in managing and handling staff. Justice Stephen Radido regretted that the compensation would be paid from public funds for the unconstitutional and unfair actions of the governor. However, the governor was not cited for acting in bad faith by the litigants &mdash; Langat and Lasoi. Had this been established, the court would have ordered that the governor personally pay for the damages. The two welcomed the ruling and promised to continue serving the people of Bomet. In Nyeri, Justice Byram Ongaya ordered the county to pay Cecilia Ndungu Sh4.5 million for wrongful dismissal as the executive member in charge of culture, gender and social development. Ragwa was ordered to reinstate Dr Fredrick Njeru Kamunde to his former position as Tharaka Nithi County Secretary. Cabinet reshuffle GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;