NAIROBI: Dazzled by renewed political attention, ANC leader and former Deputy Prime Minister Musalia Mudavadi is cautious not to drop his guard. In a country where politics is as fluid as mercury, where no deal is guaranteed until the ballot day, one can understand Musalia&rsquo;s inclination to caution; in any case he is a victim of broken political deals. And for him, the &ldquo;once beaten and twice shy&rdquo; phrase is a reality. In candid interview with The Standard on Sunday at Riverside home in Nairobi, Mudavadi bared it all &ndash; embracing his newfound attention and vowing that he is best placed to deal Jubilee a political death blow. He was extremely circumspect throughout the interview conducted in the same home where he was handed the reins of Jubilee ticket in 2013 before it was snatched away in unexplained circumstances by the same &ldquo;dynamic duo&rdquo; of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto. Almost four years later, Mudavadi still longs for answers from Kenyatta and Ruto, although he has an idea as to why the two changed their minds about him. He says he has been on a journey to put the betrayal behind him and is resolute that the proverbial stone the builders rejected is about to become the cornerstone. His newfound political fortunes notwithstanding, the ANC leader is keen to sell himself as the bridge between the antagonistic paths that have always crossed or killed the Kenyan dream. READ MORE CORD defends performance of its negotiators in IEBC committee Mzee Jomo Kenyatta paved the way for all that is great in Kenya today Mudavadi party opens its doors to 2017 aspirants &ldquo;Time has come for people to realise that we cannot continuously be looking at politics the way we have always looked at it; simply a question of ethnicity, a game of the abrasive, mistrust and shortchanging each other. People are beginning to appreciate the need for what you could call decency in politics and that&rsquo;s what I have always stood for,&rdquo; he told The Standard on Sunday. He said despite the people and the Jubilee leadership rejecting him in 2013, the awareness of what he stood for has re-emerged and spread wider. He also confirmed ongoing talks with CORD leader Raila Odinga that could lead to a formidable political formation. In the interview, Mudavadi remained categorical that he will not work with Jubilee. Once beaten twice shy. He said it is possible that CORD leadership and those fascinated by his possible political role in 2017 have finally discovered his political value. &ldquo;They are beginning to see that the values I have always advocated for &ndash; inclusivity, trust, and decency &ndash; in politics are values we have always been ignoring and yet at the end of the day they will determine whether we have good governance or not,&rdquo; he said. He openly spoke about a wide range of issues including the ever elusive Luhya unity, Water Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa&rsquo;s entry into Nairobi politics and the surprise that awaits Jubilee in Western Kenya in 2017. Below the full interview: Q: The political class seems fascinated by your candidacy and possible role in turning the tables on Jubilee in 2017. Why is this the case and why now? A: Well, I think perhaps the time has come for people to realise that we cannot continuously be looking at politics the way we have always looked at it, simply a question of ethnicity, a game of the abrasive, mistrust and shortchanging each other. People are beginning to appreciate the need for what you could call decency in politics and that&rsquo;s what I have always stood for. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 4 Next &raquo;