A night guard was brutally murdered and more than 65 bags of coffee stolen at Gesieka Coffee Processing Factory in Marani, Kisii County. Another guard sustained serious injuries while his colleague Mose Onachi managed to escape after armed robbers raided the premises. Mr Onachi said that a gang of about 30 people stormed the factory at around 11pm and started beating them. &ldquo;I managed to escape to a nearby nappier grass plantation where I hid until today morning when I went and alerted the area chief about the incident,&rdquo; he said. Kisii County Commissioner Kula Hache identified the deceased as Stephen Oyunge. She said the robbers gained access to the main store and loaded 27 sacks of coffee beans that had been packed for transportation. They later moved to the drier and packed 40 sacks into a waiting lorry. READ MORE ODM fights to lock out Jubilee in Kisii Riots break out after Kisii police killings Of sex, money and power relations &ldquo;We are not sure of the quantity that was packed from the drier because the factory management has not given us proper documentation,&quot; Ms Hache said. The County Commissioner advised factory managers not to keep dried coffee beans in their premises due to increased incidents of theft. &ldquo;We have held several security meetings with the farmers and management and agreed that they request for police officers to man the factories during the packaging period. We are investigating why they decided to keep the coffee inside the factory yet it was not secure,&rdquo; she said. The factory management and one night guard were taken to Marani Police Station for interrogation. Ms Hache said that the police visited the scene and took the guard&rsquo;s body to Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital mortuary. Area MCA, Ochwang Mengo called for thorough investigations to bring the culprits to book. &ldquo;We cannot continue to lose innocent lives because of a few individuals. The police should immediately arrest suspects,&rdquo; Mr Mengo said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;