The outgoing Moi University Vice Chancellor Prof Richard Mibey (right) and his successor, in acting capacity, Prof Laban Ayiro. [Photo: Peter Ochieng] The row over the appointment of Prof Laban Ayiro as acting Vice Chancellor of Moi University may be far from over after Education CS Fred Matiang&#39;i said the decision would not be rescinded. Matiang&#39;i yesterday explained that he followed the law and ruled out any engagement with politicians, a day after two governors and MPs who prefer Prof Isaac Kosgey stormed the university. &quot;The management of universities is governed by Universities Act and I followed the law in the whole process. I cannot engage with political leaders as I am not a politician. This is a process which invokes multiple stakeholders,&quot; the CS said. &quot;The Governing Council sent me a list of three persons who can be appointed to act. I went by what they guided me with and picked the number one proposal. All the three were eminent academicians within Moi University,&quot; Matiang&#39;i told the media, adding that he was satisfied with the leadership at the institution. Supported appointment READ MORE Kenyan universities have lost the edge Prof. Ayiro takes over as acting Moi University VC North Rift leaders storm Moi University in protest against appointment of acting VC Representatives of lecturers and students in Moi University also supported the appointment of Prof Ayiro. Officials of the University Academic Staff Union (Uasu) officials and the student leaders asked politicians to keep off affairs of the institution. &quot;Institution leaderships across the country should be de-politicised and de-ethnicised. As Uasu, we fully support Ayiro&#39;s appointment and we are ready to work with him,&quot; declared Moi University Uasu chapter secretary general Jack Willis Abok. &quot;This University is an independent entity separate from politics and communities and politics should therefore be kept away. There is a due process that should be followed in appointing a VC and as students, we will work with whoever is appointed,&quot; said Edwin Amboso, a student leader at the School of law. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago alleged they had been frustrated by the Ministry of Education over the management of the institution. &quot;The University Council did its job with integrity and forwarded names of candidates to the VC position. The recruitment process was done and we know Prof Kosgey emerged top and he should be appointed as the substantive VC immediately,&quot; said Mandago. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;