Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka yesterday dismissed claims that he will enter into political deals with Jubilee Party. He said his statement last weekend that he must be in the next administration did not mean he was keen to work with President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s government. Kalonzo spoke on the same day that Ford Kenya party leader and CORD co-principal Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula brushed off claims of discord in the Opposition coalition. Wetang&rsquo;ula said the Coalition for Reforms and Democracy&rsquo;s three principals cannot speak the same language all the time, but would always arrive at a consensus. Earlier yesterday, Kalonzo told journalists that he would remain in CORD&nbsp; and was most likely to clinch the nomination to be the coalition&rsquo;s flagbearer. Don&rsquo;t celebrate READ MORE ODM defectors fail to honour summons citing their security at Orange House Our tours in opposition areas bearing fruit, claims DP William Ruto CORD united to kick Jubilee out of power, says Wetang'ula Speaking at the party&rsquo;s headquarters when he awarded membership certificates to Wiper members, Kalonzo told Jubilee supporters not to start celebrating, thinking that he was about to join them. &ldquo;When I said I must be in the next government, other people started saying the next government is Jubilee. But I meant the government that I shall lead. This cannot and will not be the Jubilee administration,&rdquo; Kalonzo said. The former Vice President&rsquo;s previous statement had triggered reactions in some quarters, with Jubilee supporters reaffirming that they were ready to work with him. It came as the future of CORD came into question following a series of rallies by each of the political parties in the coalition &mdash; the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM), Wiper and Ford Kenya. Calls by ODM point men to have Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho installed as party leader Raila Odinga&rsquo;s running mate triggered more reactions before Joho announced on Thursday that he would not be Raila&rsquo;s deputy. Reports of a fallout among the corporate political parties were fuelled further when ODM leaders accused Wetang&rsquo;ula of using very strong language to criticise Raila during Ford-K rallies. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;