President Uhuru Kenyatta and&nbsp;Deputy President William Ruto&nbsp;averted a scramble for top party&nbsp;seats in the new Jubilee Party by&nbsp;submitting a list of officials that led&nbsp;their previous party. The new list is now with the&nbsp;Registrar of Political Parties who&nbsp;says the submission was in order&nbsp;since Jubilee did not dissolve itself&nbsp;but just changed its name.Officials of the old Jubilee have been retained in the new party launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy, William Ruto, on Saturday.&nbsp; The decision to recall the officials of Jubilee Alliance Party (JAP) to lead Jubilee Party is seen as a strategy to forestall jostling for positions by top guns from parties that dissolved to merge with the newly-formed outfit. It has emerged that given it is JAP that was renamed Jubilee Party, the lineup of officials of the former has been filed with the Registrar of Political Parties, albeit with the addition of Uhuru and Ruto as party leader and deputy party leader, respectively. Yesterday, Registrar of Political Parties Lucy Ndung&rsquo;u clarified that since JAP was not dissolved, but was renamed Jubilee Party, its officials remain in office until the new party conducts elections or files a new list. Retain group READ MORE IGAD holds 28th summit in Somali capital Karua party sues PNU over property Crisis over 2017 election timelines &ldquo;JAP did not dissolve and the officials of JP are the same since JAP only changed the name to Jubilee Party. I have received an additional two names that were announced during the party launch,&rdquo; explained Ndung&rsquo;u, referring to the Saturday launch of JP where Uhuru and Ruto were named as the leaders. She went on: &ldquo;I am still going through the documents to check if they have complied. The process is likely to end on Thursday (tomorrow).&rdquo; Going by this announcement, the officials are Mr Nelson Dzuya (chairman), former Gatanga MP David Murathe (vice chairman) and Veronica Maina (secretary general). Ms Maina is deputised by Mr Caleb Kositany and Fatuma Mohamud. The party&rsquo;s treasurer is Mr Alfred Kipkorir while Mr Abdul Hajji, is the party&rsquo;s organising secretary. It would appear the Jubilee leaders opted to retain the group as interim officials to avert the power struggle that was emerging as leaders of 11 parties that dissolved jostled for posts in JP. Initially, it had been reported that Uhuru and Ruto would name interim officials of the new party during its launch on Saturday but that did not materialise lending credence to speculation on the scramble for the posts. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;