Four relatives, among them a former navy soldier, have been arrested for allegedly attempting to bribe military officers in the ongoing recruitment. The suspects were arrested Wednesday morning at Ruring&rsquo;u Stadium in Nyeri County, where the Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) recruitment was taking place. Lieutenant Colonel Mathew Lenamunai said the suspects were arrested with Sh86,000, a driving licence and stamps belonging to various KDF institutions. &ldquo;We received intelligence reports that there was a suspect trying to influence the exercise. We followed up the matter and arrested the suspect. He was in possession of Sh86,000 in cash, a mobile phone and the stamps,&rdquo; said Mr Lenamunai. Military officers also arrested an elderly man, his daughter and grandson who were trying to canvass for entry into KDF. &ldquo;We found out that they were colluding to ensure that they influenced the young man&rsquo;s recruitment,&rdquo; he said. READ MORE KDF warns of conmen as recruitment drive kicks off Military recruitment starts as DoD warns of marauding conmen Motion on South Sudan troops shelved Lt Col Lenamunai said the main suspect, who is a son of the elderly man, was a former KDF private. He enrolled in the military in 2007 and resigned in 2009. It was not immediately clear why he resigned and what he does for a living. Following the arrest, KDF officers handed the suspects over to Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission officers and the police. However, the recruitment went on as scheduled, with over 200 youths from Nyeri Central sub-county turning up to try their luck. Stained teeth Meanwhile, hundreds of youths who turned up in Embu left disappointed after they were disqualified for having stained teeth. KDF recruiting officer Lt Col Patrick Mwashube said they required youths with proper dental structures and anyone with issues was disqualified. He said KDF would conduct a medical study to establish why youths in the region had dental problems. He said they suspected it had to do with the consumption of chlorinated water or miraa. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;