The Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) has started a sustained campaign against Governor Salim Mvurya following his defection to Jubilee. The Kwale governor was among a list of politicians who ditched the Opposition for the newly formed Jubilee party. Now ODM is hitting back by reaching out to a number of MCAs allied to the Jubilee Party in the county. On Saturday, five MCAs from Mvurya&#39;s backyard attended an ODM anniversary party in Mombasa. The five included Leader of Minority and Puma Ward MCA James Dawa (UDF), Mwereni MCA Kassim Pojjo (URP), Dzombo Ward MCA Patrick Mangale (Kadu Asili) and nominated MCAs Suleiman Nzala (UDF) and Khadijah Hamisi (Kadu Asili) The Standard has also established that Issah Chipera, who is eyeing Mvurya&#39;s position in ODM, met privately with ODM leader Raila Odinga and his deputy Hassan Joho in Mombasa over the weekend. &quot;As ODM and CORD at large, we will make sure we have raided all the MCAs. Most of them are not with him (Mvurya). He has exposed himself, we will also expose him because he took us (MCAs) for granted. We will start consolidating our support base,&quot; said Deputy Majority Leader and Kwale ODM secretary Omar Boga. READ MORE Political parties' extravaganza in bad faith Jubilee and CORD in war of words over defection by opposition leaders Jubilee will face bruising battle, Isaac Ruto promises With 10 MCAs out of the 33, ODM controls the majority seats while UDF has the minority. Before Mr Dawa was elected as leader of the minority, the post was held by Kasemeni MCA Antony Yama (UDF), who was replaced early last year due to his closeness with Mvurya. Of the 33, only Yama has stood with the governor. Although Mwereni MCA Kassim Pojo has ditched URP for ODM, Dawa said he only attended the ODM dinner after his party, UDF, failed to invite him and others to Nairobi. &quot;I went to Mombasa to see the plans that ODM has. I have 30 days within which, unlike Mvurya, I will go back to my people and consult if I am to join ODM or not,&quot; said Dawa. He told The Standard that he was invited through Mvurya. According to Kinango MP Gonzi Rai, the invitation never reached him. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;