Majority of Americans say Democrat Hillary Clinton won Monday night&#39;s presidential debate, but her performance doesn&#39;t appear to have immediately boosted her support among likely voters, according to a Reuters/Ipsos national tracking poll released on Wednesday. The online poll, which gathered responses from more than 2,000 people on Tuesday, found 56 percent of American adults felt that Clinton did a better job than Trump in the first of their three televised debates, compared with 26 percent who felt that Trump did better. Of those who thought Clinton emerged the victor, 85 percent were Democrats and 22 percent were Republicans. U.S. presidential debates have historically been seen as a crucial test of candidates&#39; poise and policies. Monday&#39;s was watched by a record 84 million viewers and was billed as a rare prime-time opportunity for two unpopular candidates to convince millions of undecided voters to back them. Afterward, both candidates claimed victory. &quot;&ldquo;Every single online poll had me winning,&rdquo; Trump said at a campaign stop in Council Bluffs, Iowa on Wednesday. &quot;You sit back and you hear how well she did in the debate. I don&rsquo;t think she did well at all.&rdquo; READ MORE Trump-Clinton showdown breaks TV debate ratings record GOP erred in allowing Trump set their agenda Researchers find climate change already delivering severe impacts Clinton campaign spokesman Jesse Ferguson said the Democrat clearly won the debate as Trump &quot;was unprepared, became unhinged and was incoherent throughout.&quot; Among those who are expected to take part in the Nov. 8 general election, 34 percent said they felt that the debate changed their view of Clinton in a positive way, compared with 19 percent who said the same of Trump. DELAYED REACTION Some 31 percent of likely voters said the debate improved Clinton&#39;s chances of winning the White House, while 16 percent said the debate benefited Trump. Even so, Clinton&#39;s performance seemed to have little impact on her support among America&#39;s likely voters. The poll showed 42 percent supported Clinton while 38 percent supported Trump. Over the past few weeks Clinton has maintained a lead of between 4 and 6 points over Trump. Narrowing the focus to likely voters who watched the debate, Clinton led Trump 44 percent to 39 percent. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;