Council of Governors chairman Peter Munya says governors are being judged harshly on their development records compared to the national government. Mr Munya (pictured) also defended spending by counties, saying they were being subjected to undue scrutiny, which was not the case with the national government, which has also come under focus for questionable spending. &ldquo;The national government needs to look at counties as a work in progress and appreciate the fact that there is development. When the national government loses millions through scandals such as the NYS, it is not judged&nbsp; harshly,&rdquo; he said. Munya appeared before the Senate Public Accounts Committee on Tuesday when he was grilled for not spending money allocated for development. He was required to explain why Meru County spent less than half of the Sh2.8 billion allocated for development expenditure, leaving Sh2.2 billion unused. The governor told the committee that his administration had created a country revenue board that assisted in the collection of revenue to seal tax loopholes. READ MORE Two Kisii MCAs charged with infringing on children rights Let us embrace satellite technology Senate grills Governor Munya on auditor's budget queries Historical context &ldquo;I am not saying that we should not be held accountable on how we spend public money but counties should be put in the correct historical context. Counties have done tremendously well since the advent of devolution,&rdquo; said Munya. Commenting on the recent strike by doctors, the county boss said the national government was to blame for not honouring the commitment it gave to the health workers years ago. He said that individual counties have had to formulate other ways of averting health crises. Meanwhile, the Council of Governors yesterday launched the Devolution Torch Programme, which is meant to highlight the success of devolution in various counties. The official unveiling of the torch will happen in Wajir today before moving to other counties in phases. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;