Libreville: Gabon opposition leader Jean Ping said on Thursday two people were killed and many wounded when the presidential guard and police attacked his party&#39;s headquarters overnight after an election narrowly won by President Ali Bongo. Ping called for international assistance to protect the population of the oil-producing state and said Saturday&#39;s election was stolen by Bongo, who was declared the winner on Wednesday. The result gives the president a further seven years in power in the country of 1.8 million people. Bongo took power in 2009 on the death of his father, who had ruled for 42 years. Opposition supporters greeted the election result with anger. Demonstrators in the capital Libreville clashed with police and set part of the parliament building on fire. Police also fired teargas in clashes with around 100 opposition supporters, according to a Reuters witness. Spokesmen for the police and the presidential guard were not immediately available for comment. READ MORE Gabon condemns Ping, warns French officials against 'interference' Gabon leader and top rival both claim presidential victory, allege fraud &quot;Everybody knows that I won the election,&quot; Ping said in a telephone interview, adding that the electoral commission&#39;s figures were based on false documents. &quot;The (Bongo) family are repeating same scenario for almost half a century. The opposition can win the elections but they have never had access to power... We need assistance from the rest of the world to protect the population of Gabon from a clan of mercenaries, a rogue state,&quot; he said. France, the United States and the European Union all urged calm and called upon Gabonese authorities to release the results of individual polling stations for greater transparency, while the United Nations also urged restraint. Bongo won 49.80 percent of votes against 48.23 percent for Ping, on a turnout of 59.46 percent, according to results given region by region by Interior Minister Pacome Moubelet Boubeya. &quot;This victory by such a tight score obliges ... each of us to respect the verdict of the ballot box and our institutions,&quot; Bongo said in the text of a victory speech distributed to reporters. Ping, a political insider who has served as foreign minister and African Union Commission chairman, was a close ally of the late president and fathered two children with his daughter. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;