&nbsp; Police keep guard at the controversial Karen Land after High Court judge Lucy Nyambura ordered the Langata OCPD to ensure no further development was witnessed on the disputed 134 acre piece of land.PHOTO DAVID NJAAGA Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) now says the controversial Sh8 billion Karen land belongs to Muchanga Investments limited whose director Horatious Da Gam Rose died last week. EACC report filed in the Environment and Land Division civit suit number 1180 of 2014, late last week have stated that the 134.4 acre belonged to the late Da Gama Rose. According to the EACC filed a witness statement in the civil dispute where Muchanga limited has sued Telesource.com associated with former NSSF Managing trustee Jos Konzolo, the anti graft body investigations report stated that the land belongs to Da Gama Rose firm. EACC investigator Emmanuel Arunga who led the probe team in his statement to Justice Lucy Gacheru said he will rely heavily on his report that established how the fraud was executed, in giving evidence as a witness in the civil suit. &quot;That I led the investigating team that collected evidence and compiled the investigation report in respect of the suit land LR 3586/3 and I wish to rely on the report filed in court as evidence,&quot; Arunga says in a statement filed on 5th September 2016. READ MORE EACC report says corruption is rife at Kenya's borders Kinisu&rsquo;s exit and the hard lessons it offers After bank rates, fix wastage in the Government of Kenya In the report, the EACC detective had concluded that the land belongs to Muchanga limited after he found that the title claimed by Telesource.com was a fraud after receiving statements from several witnesses and assessing the documentation. &quot;In the foregoing, I conclude that the land belongs to Muchanga Investments Limited and all the persons involved in the attempt to fraudulently transfer the property to Telesource.com should be charged in a court of law,&quot; the report stated. Muchanga ltd went to court in September 2014 and successfully obtained orders stopping any Telesource.com or their agents from encroaching or developing the property until the case is determined. Arunga in his statement said Konzolo, through his Telesource.com Limited, told the commission that he obtained the land from John Mugo Kamau on October 21, 2005, with Kamau having acquired it in 1978. But the commission in its report said that there was no indication of who transferred the land to John Kamau Mugo as per the title obtained from lands office which was under the custody of Sarah Mwenda. EACC reports notes that the transfer documents between Arnold Bradley and Kamau Mugo dated 24th August 1978 and presented to them by Konzolo were not true since Bradley had died way back in 1973. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;