The concept of a United State of Africa has gained traction after the African Union (AU) launched an African passport in July 2016. The goal is to have the document in circulation by 2020 to allow citizens of the 54 member states travel visa-free across Africa. The notion of a single continental bloc was advanced by the late Libyan President Col. Muammar Gaddafi who even put substantial resources into it to woo African states into buying the proposed idea. Although largely driven by his own political ambitions, Gaddafi had a valid proposition of a united Africa. While there are both pros and cons, the quest for one passport for Africans is welcome. There are numerous benefits to be derived from a united Africa that would outweigh those of a divided continent. If this becomes a reality and enables citizens of 54 member states travel with ease, it will spur growth by encouraging intra-Africa trade. A more integrated Africa would empower us to better negotiate for our rightful share at the global arena, perhaps starting with a permanent seat at the UN Security Council or a greater role in global trade institutions such as the World Trade Organisation. The question however is; how practical is this AU passport? Africa has well developed states like South Africa; unstable states like Somalia and countries undergoing civil strife like South Sudan. There are all manner of political leadership systems; democracies, autocracies, monarchies and military regimes. Thus, coming up with common regulations may prove hard. It is important to note that the value of the passport is not the booklet but rather the recognition and integrity it carries. Conversely, it is important to restore the glory of the Kenyan passport to enable holders travel in dignity unlike the current situation where pass holders are treated with contempt before getting visas. READ MORE Kenya nominates Amina for top African Union Commission job When half of Africa&rsquo;s leaders came calling for Tokyo summit Further, immigration has emerged as a major political concern for many countries regardless of their level of development. In fact, any candidate seeking political office in America and Europe must have a comprehensive plan on immigration controls. Brexit was about immigration more than any other issue. This is because immigration is linked to transnational crimes like terrorism, human and drug trafficking, among others. The levels of unemployment globally have also made various countries home to many economic migrants who then demand immigration reforms. In Africa, xenophobia in South Africa simmers on. Currently, there are only 13 countries in Africa that are open to all Africans visa-free and only one regional bloc, the Economic Community of West Africa States (ECOWAS), has a fully functional regional passport. The East African Community (EAC) has an East African Passport that is mainly used by Kenyans, Ugandans and Tanzanians but rarely used by Rwandese and Burundians. Despite this, an e-passport has recently been launched in the region. The e-passport is expected to replace respective national passports of partner states (Kenya, Rwanda, Burundi, Tanzania and Uganda) by 2018. It will then be interesting to see the nexus between the EAC and AU passport by the year 2020. Even with these developments, the EAC member states still display elements of distrust for citizens of partner states particularly on work authorization, right of settlement and land ownership. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;