There have been two separate demonstrations in the Rongai area of Nairobi in as many days. Last Sunday, a public service vehicle on the Rongai route overturned, killing four people and injuring many. It has emerged that most public service vehicles on this route operate with impunity while traffic policemen and the National Transport and Safety Authority officials look on. Among the four who died in the accident was a female student of Multi Media University, Rongai. In protest, students from the university barricaded the road on Tuesday this week, paralysing transport between Rongai and Nairobi city. The police had to come in to disperse the rowdy students, and as would be expected in such a situation, there were serious injuries when live bullets and tear gas were used to quell the riots. Yesterday, the larger Rongai area residents demonstrated and barricaded the same road after a pedestrian was killed by a school bus. They staged a boycott of public transport and opted to walk all the way to town, demanding action from relevant authorities. In Uasin Gishu County, angry residents blocked the Iten-Eldoret road for hours protesting the poor state of the road early this week and not even entreaties from Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos could appease them. The same happened in Nakuru County where residents blocked Kiangai-Murungu road, protesting against its poor state. One wonders why the national and county governments cannot repair roads even when funds are set aside for them. READ MORE Stem rise in accidents on Kenyan roads Nairobi: NTSA names PSVs flouting rules NTSA deregisters sacco after accident along Langata Road Water is becoming a problem for most urban dwellers, yet there is little that county governments are doing to put an end to perennial shortages. What is becoming apparent, however, is that most of the water bowsers that sell water to frustrated residents in deprived estates at exorbitant prices are actually owned by individuals in the employ of water and sewerage companies. In a nutshell, the shortages are orchestrated for selfish gains. In Nairobi&rsquo;s Lang&rsquo;ata National Housing Corporation estate, residents fed up with official ineptitude and exploitation contributed money to buy their own water bowser and have since managed to cut down on runaway water costs. The common thing in these incidents is that citizens are staging protests against social injustices and general lethargy within government and its institutions. They are taking matters into their hands because those they look up to for salvation have failed them. They have every reason to be angry and to do what they have embarked on in view of the high taxation they incur; the obvious misuse of public funds and the reluctance by those entrusted with public funds to be subjected to checks and controls. Leaders must, for once, stop politicking and take note. There is no knowing where this might lead to; all the more reason why politicians and all those in leadership positions must up their game and do what is required of them. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;