President Uhuru Kenyatta has lobbied MPs to endorse a report detailing a raft of electoral reforms before next year&rsquo;s elections. Uhuru yesterday received the report of the joint parliamentary select committee on IEBC, a day after Opposition leader Raila Odinga, too, backed the political settlement reached by both sides after month-long talks. The report was tabled in the National Assembly and Senate yesterday as the leadership of both coalitions rallied for its adoption without amendments. Earlier, the committee had also handed over the report to the House leadership with two appendages, the draft Bills seeking to amend the Election law and the Elections Offences law during a ceremony at Parliament yesterday. President Kenyatta also championed expeditious consideration of the report by Parliament in accordance with parliamentary procedures and practice. &ldquo;This report is a product of consensus. I have received the report of the committee and commend members for their exemplary work delivered against a background of tight deadlines,&rdquo; noted the Head of State. READ MORE Munya blames Kiraitu for party hopping law proposal Tough times await new Jubilee party Consult on poll team, Raila tells President Uhuru He went on: &ldquo;I applaud the members for their bipartisan approach in addressing all matters relating to the IEBC. Members of Parliament should also apply the same spirit in addressing all matters of national importance.&rdquo; Uhuru said the process of recruitment and appointment of new commissioners should start urgently to ensure the August 8, 2017 General Election is conducted on schedule by a polls body that enjoys broad confidence of Kenyans. He emphasised on the need for new commissioners to assume office within the agreed constitutional and statutory timelines in order to deliver free, fair and credible elections. POLITICAL SETTLEMENT On Wednesday, Opposition leader Raila Odinga asked members of the Coalition for Reforms and Democracy (CORD) to approve the report that details the negotiated political settlement. He further said the envisaged reforms would give all players confidence and result in a free, fair and credible poll. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;