CORD leader Raila Odinga has questioned the source of funds spent by the ruling Jubilee coalition to stage its show of might in launching its new party. In an exclusive interview with The Standard on Saturday, Raila played down the show and promised Jubilee Party a &ldquo;battle royale&rdquo; in next year&rsquo;s elections. And the party leader arrived in Mombasa yesterday afternoon ahead of a grand celebration to mark 10 years since the party was formed. The event is part of series of events lined up to showcase the party&rsquo;s might. Speaking in the morning before he left for Coast, the CORD co-principle likened the 2017 contest to the Biblical David and Goliath fight. He said other parties cannot afford such lavish show displayed by Jubilee Party as they had been denied the &ldquo;rightful&rdquo; political party funding, adding that the money spent was suspect. He, once again, claimed that proceeds from Eurobond and National Youth Service (NYS) could have been used by Jubilee to stage the launch of President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto&rsquo;s new political vehicle. READ MORE Mombasa in festive mood ahead of today&rsquo;s ODM party bash Joho upbeat about ODM 'mega' celebrations I will be on ballot, Raila assures supporters &ldquo;Where is this money coming from? First in Jubilee there are only two parliamentary political parties - TNA and URP - which are entitled to political parties funding. For the record, ODM is the largest party in Parliament,&rdquo; the Opposition leader said. He added: &ldquo;They are lying to the people. That money is coming from another source and our suspicion is that it is the Eurobond money, the NYS money and others they are getting through irregular procurement. They are staging this thinking they can buy leaders, but they cannot buy the people of Kenya. Some of the branded vehicles are GK vehicles. Some of them are vehicles which have been bought through ill-gotten wealth.&rdquo; The CORD principal said despite the Jubilee merger, his wing was ripe enough to give Jubilee Party a thrash in the polls. He likened his front to the David and Jubilee to Goliath, saying he &ldquo;will not miss the target (State House) this time&rdquo;. Raila said despite changing face, Uhuru and Ruto&rsquo;s new outfit lacked tack to win the support of Kenyans. He urged his supporters against being intimidated by their political opponents. Raila criticised President Kenyatta&rsquo;s use of State House for party meetings, saying it was against the law as party meetings ought to be held in their headquarters and not State offices. Defections GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;