Jubilee and CORD will nominate two members each to the panel that will nominate new electoral agency commissioners. National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale, who spoke in Mombasa Sunday, said Jubilee will pick its members Tuesday. He said electoral reforms are on course and that they will ensure the new Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) bosses are recruited transparently. &quot;We are determined to ensure the current commissioners leave office by October 4 (Tuesday), the date the law says they must exit,&quot; said Duale. He added: &quot;President Uhuru Kenyatta will then name the selection panel. And the Opposition should prepare for defeat in the 2017 poll because IEBC does not vote, it is the masses that vote.&quot; The panel will identify the names and send them to the President who will forward the same to Parliament for approval. READ MORE Raila&rsquo;s call to arms over IEBC uncalled for IEBC bosses to know their exit package on Monday Mudavadi rules out possibility of working with DP Ruto Duale also used the Somali Youth Forum Social and Cultural Engagement event to back Abdi Daib as the Jubilee candidate for the Changamwe parliamentary seat currently held by ODM&#39;s Omar Mwinyi. He was accompanied by MPs Hassan Yussuf (Kamukunji), Abdulaziz Farah (Mandera East), Mohamed Mohamud (Mandera West) Ibrahim Saney (Wajir North) and nominated MP Abdi Noor. Duale claimed ODM leader Raila Odinga had abandoned Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetang&#39;ula and wants to take Mombasa Governor Ali Hassan Joho as his running mate in next year&#39;s elections. &quot;Why has he (Raila) left Kalonzo who commands well over 1.5 million votes from eastern region and Wetang&#39;ula who can bring in substantial votes from western Kenya? Joho will not bring in anything,&quot; he said. Duale called on the Somali community to support President Kenyatta&#39;a re-election bid. Meanwhile, State House says the process of reconstituting the electoral body is still within the set timelines. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;