Brussels:&nbsp;If investors hoped for one thing after Britain&#39;s shock vote to leave the European Union, it was clarity. But there is little. Britain has so far been clear about what will not happen: Prime Minister Theresa May has repeated that the formal divorce notification will not be sent before the end of the year and that Britain will not get a bad deal. &quot;We will be getting the right deal for the United Kingdom and that is the right deal in terms of trade in goods,&quot; May told the chiefs of Wall Street and major U.S. companies such as Citigroup and Amazon in New York this week. During her trip, May said the EU divorce filing would take a few months of preparation, was clear that Brexit would happen and sought to reassure the world that Britain was not turning away from the world. Investors ranging from London-based banks and Wall Street to Japanese carmakers and small British businesses have repeatedly asked for reassurances from the British government over what Brexit will mean for them and when. But aside from perturbed investors, Britain&#39;s new leader must balance an abundance of views on Brexit: German and French leaders facing elections in 2017, a divided electorate that will vote again in 2020 and a strong pro-Brexit wing in her party and government. READ MORE Kenya fights off pain of isolation and cold war by Magufuli Kenya's National Assembly in special sitting to ratify EU trade deal Turkish soldiers, Kurdish militants killed in violence in Turkey's southeast May has made clear she will not give a running commentary on Brexit or lay out all her negotiating cards in public, though some aides have suggested her plan is to invoke Article 50 early in 2017. &quot;PROSECCO SPEED&quot; BREXIT? Boris Johnson, the most prominent leader of the Brexit campaign and now May&#39;s foreign minister, said Britain would trigger divorce by invoking Article 50 of the European Union&rsquo;s Lisbon Treaty in a letter early next year. &quot;What we&#39;re doing is talking to our European friends and partners now in the expectation that, by the early part of next year, you will see an Article 50 letter, we will invoke that, and in that letter I&#39;m sure we will be setting out some parameters for how we propose to take this forward,&quot; Johnson told Sky News television in New York. When asked about Johnson&#39;s comment, a Downing Street spokeswoman said: &quot;The Government&#39;s position has not changed &ndash; we will not trigger Article 50 before the end of 2016 and we are using this time to prepare for the negotiations.&quot; Article 50, a the 256-word provision drafted by a former British ambassador to the EU, has never been used so there is no legal precedent for how it works though it gives a two-year period to work out the divorce. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;