Fear of attacks at Chesogon area along the West Pokot - Elgeyo Marakwet border has forced some residents to seek safety in caves. Area chief Julius Matala said some locals have been forced to live in caves as they fear attacks by raiders who have been stealing cattle and attacking residents. The road network that connects the two Counties has been interfered with, leading to mango farmers in the area counting heavy losses since they cannot transport their farm produce to markets. &quot;There is still tension along the border after more than 300 cattle were recently stolen by our neighbours .There is high suspicion but the government has deployed enough officers to man the border,&quot; he said. Residents of Chesogon have been victims of clashes between residents of Baringo, West Pokot and Elgeyo Marakwet Counties, which has greatly affected socio-economic activities in the area. Speaking during a peace meeting at Cheptulel centre, West Pokot Governor Simon Kachapin&nbsp; called on leaders to work together to ensure sustainable peace along the borders. READ MORE West Pokot Senator opposes Moi university VC appointment End cattle rustling menace in Kerio Valley Former VC wants Moi University Interview results made public &quot;Peace process is a delicate process and I urge all security organs to work closely with local leaders,&quot; he said. The County boss distributed relief food, blankets and other food items to the affected families. Kachapin said most of projects being implemented along the border have stalled due to insecurity. &quot;Construction of a technical college has stopped due to insecurity as everyone fears living here due to attacks. This is a sad situation,&quot; he said. However, he said elected leaders from West Pokot, Baringo and Elgeyo Marakwet counties are now working closely with the Ministry of Internal Security to ensure a peaceful coexistence among the warring communities. &quot;We want to go to the grassroots to listen to our people and get to the root cause of this problem. We want to get the solution from the people,&quot; he said GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;