The fight for political supremacy is fast taking shape with the formation of two rival camps made up of familiar friends and foes. A group allied to Governor James Ongwae and another led by Kenyan Ambassador to the UN Habitat Prof Sam Ongeri under the banner of &quot;Love for the Gusii Community&quot; on Sunday promised to traverse the Gusii region in separate convoys. Proponents of the Kisii unity talks concluded their two-month rallies across the county by endorsing Senator Chris Obure for the county&#39;s gubernatorial seat. With the formation of the two outfits, a number of political leaders have found themselves in unfamiliar territory, with sworn political enemies forced to share podiums. Obure, once a political rival to Bomachoge Borabu MP Joel Onyancha, is now reading from the same political script with the MP. Despite coming from the same clan, Bomachoge Chache MP Simon Ogari and Kisii County Deputy Governor Joash Maangi have had long-standing political differences but the Gusii unity caucus has brought them together. READ MORE Obure says he is ready to work with Jubilee Kisii: Nominated senator Janet Ong'era tells off Obure on Jubilee ODM party factions emerge as Mbadi calls for sobriety Before he was picked to deputise Ongwae in 2013, Maangi was set to contest for the Bomachoge Chache parliamentary seat, a position that Ogari went on to clinch. The 1990s political rivalry between the families and clans of the late Dr Zachary Onyonka and that of former Cabinet Minister Simeon Nyachae has been set aside by their sons. Kitutu Chache South MP Richard Onyonka and former chairman of the defunct Committee on Implementation of the Constitution (CIC) Charles Nyachae are vocal members of the Gusii unity caucus. In the past few months, the two have called on the Gusii community to support the Jubilee Government. During the burial of Estheri Kerubo, first wife of the senior Nyachae a month ago, Onyonka said they will not hold on to their past political differences. &quot;We want to have a united community. We have the numbers that can propel us to have bargaining power in any government formation. Our people want to see development and not political games,&quot; said Onyonka. In Ongwae&#39;s corner, Prof Ongeri has united with nominated Senator and ODM diehard Janet Ongera who is eyeing the Kisii County woman representative seat. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;