&nbsp; US Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump on Tuesday delivered his most aggressive call yet to woo African-American voters, vowing to restore law and order, only days after a fatal police shooting of a black man sparked more street violence. Speaking a few miles from Milwaukee, which was rocked by weekend riots, Trump accused his Democratic rival Hillary Clinton of &quot;bigotry&quot; and vowed to protect the jobs of minorities from immigrants. Trump has been repeatedly called a &quot;bigot&quot; by his Democratic opponents. &quot;I&#39;m asking for the vote for every African-American citizen struggling in our society today who wants a different and much better future,&quot; Trump said. &quot;Jobs, safety, opportunity, fair and equal representation: We reject the bigotry of Hillary Clinton which panders to, and talks down to, communities of colour and sees them only as votes &ndash; that&rsquo;s all they care about &ndash; not as individual human beings worthy of a better future.&quot; Earlier, Trump held three events in Milwaukee, a city still reeling from violent protests after the death of Sylville Smith, 23. Authorities said Smith was stopped for acting suspiciously and was shot by police because he was carrying an illegal handgun and refused orders to drop it. READ MORE Amid Trump criticism, U.S. to help states fight voter fraud Police gun down four suspects linked to robberies in Kiambu, Nairobi Trump ignites firestorm with remarks on gun rights, Clinton Trump encountered only a handful of peaceful protesters while in the city, including some at a closed fundraiser. He held a brief meeting with veterans and law enforcement, including Milwaukee County Sheriff David Clarke and Inspector Edward Bailey. But news media representatives were escorted out and not permitted to hear the discussions. Clarke, who is black and spoke at last month&#39;s Republican National Convention, has criticized the protests, writing in an opinion piece for The Hill that they were &quot;a collapse of the social order, where tribal behavior leads to reacting to circumstances instead of waiting for facts to emerge.&quot; Trump also taped a town hall meeting with Fox News, in which he blamed President Barack Obama for what he sees as hostility toward police. &quot;He has not been good to the police, simply, and the police are not big fans of his,&quot; Trump said. Trump traveled 45 minutes outside of Milwaukee, which is 40 percent black, to deliver his appeal to African-American voters in the suburb of West Bend, Wisconsin, a community that is 95 percent white. He spoke before an almost entirely white audience. &quot;A vote for her (Clinton) is a vote for another generation of poverty, high crime and lost opportunities,&quot; Trump said. &quot;Crime and violence is an attack on the poor and it will never be accepted in a Trump administration.&quot; GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;