There was panic in parts of Western Kenya as earthquake aftershocks hit Kakamega, Bungoma, Busia, Trans-Nzoia, Vihiga and Siaya. In Kakamega town witnesses said storey business premises shook for a few minutes, causing panic among occupants who dashed out thinking the building was collapsing. &ldquo;I was buying stationery at a bookshop then suddenly I noticed the building was shaking. I quickly rushed out. Everyone was in panic,&rsquo;&rsquo; said Mary Wasike. David Wafula, a resident in Vihiga recalled the chilling moment. &ldquo;I was serving a client at the hotel then suddenly the tray fell down. We thought the building was collapsing. Later on, we were told it was an earthquake,&rdquo; he said. The 5.7 magnitude earthquake hit Northern Tanzania, Western Uganda and Rwanda, with the epicentre recorded in Kagera and Rakai in Uganda. In parts of Kisumu, Siaya, Homa Bay and Migori, residents said he tremor started at around 3.30pm and lasted about three minutes. Sara Atieno from Banana estate in Siaya town narrated: &ldquo;For a moment, I thought the sofa set would fall on the side because of how it was shaking.&rdquo; READ MORE Leopards cornered as Ulinzi sink Sugar men to advance in GOtv Shielp Cup competition Limping Leopards to meet Omino&rsquo;s red-hot Stima: Bruised Ingwe visit Stima as Chemelil head to Ulinzi Butere man kills mother while intervening in fight between parents Panic also swept across some regions in North Rift. &ldquo;I was in my house when the TV and utensils started shaking. I was very afraid,&rdquo; said Carl Ruto, from Kapsabet. The tremor was also felt in Kosirai, Mosoriot and Kabiyet regions of Nandi, Eldoret town, Kitale, West Pokot, Elgeyo Marakwet, Trans Nzoia and parts of the South Rift. Nandi North OCPD Alfred Nthiga said no casualties had been reported. &ldquo;I also felt the tremor that lasted for some few minutes,&rdquo; said Nthiga who is stationed in Kabiyet, Nandi County. Residents in Eldoret had jammed hotels to follow proceedings of the official launch of Jubilee Alliance party in Kasarani Stadium. &nbsp;