Thousands of students enrolled at mid-level colleges in Mombasa were sent into panic following reports that most of institutions are not registered. It also emerged that the colleges have been offering internal diplomas not recognised by the Technical and Vocation Education Training Authority (TVETA). Subsequently, the authority plans to start a countrywide crackdown starting next month. The authority&rsquo;s Director General Dr Kipkurui Langat said they are concerned about the high number of unregistered middle level colleges and from next month will start a national wide crackdown. The exercise will start in Nairobi and Eldoret before they move to Mombasa in November. &ldquo;No institution should offer any education and training services without prior inspection and registration. The public has been advised to visit TVETA website to see the accredited colleges,&rdquo; said the authority&rsquo;s Director General Dr Kipkurui Langat. He said all TVETA-registered institutions must comply with the law in order to produce competent skilled workforce. READ MORE Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko told to produce suspect in court Private varsities in Kenya fault report on graduates&rsquo; employability Police accuse Rogo&rsquo;s wife of failing to stop crime Records show that there are 109 privately-owned colleges in Mombasa offering courses in technical fields, hospitality, accounting, maritime and aviation courses and most of them are not recognised by the authority even though they admit students year after year. Subsequently, the certificates and diplomas they award are not recognised by the Government. Now the training authority says only 12 colleges in Mombasa&nbsp; have complied with its regulations and are licensed to teach courses leading to award of certificates in these field. TVET says no private college is authorised to award internal diplomas. Over the years, private colleges have mushroomed in Mombasa with some operating from residential areas and shopping centres along the central business district. Others are housed in dilapidated buildings with no proper ablutions facilities. According to a public notice from the regulator, the few credited colleges include&nbsp; Mombasa College of Tourism and Business Management, Mombasa Aviation Training Institute and Vision Institute of Professional. Meanwhile, as a form of redress, the regulator has advised parents to move to court and sue the fake colleges that has been fleecing them. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;