South Sudan&lsquo;s President Salva Kiir recounted how he saved the life of his rival Riek Machar last month when war broke out in Juba. In an exclusive interview with KTN&lsquo;s Jeff Koinange Live on Wednesday night, the president re-enacted the events of July 8. He even took Mr Koinange round the palace as he described how he arranged for the evacuation of Machar from the presidential palace. President Kiir said he was forced to act as Machar&lsquo;s human shield as he (Machar) boarded the presidential limousine. The two had been holed up in the palace as fierce gun battle between Machar&lsquo;s forces and Kiir&lsquo;s presidential guards raged on outside on July 8, triggering a crisis that would see hundreds killed. Mr Kiir was forced to give Machar his presidential limousine because Machar&#39;s vehicles had been destroyed in the fighting. &quot;I took him from here. The car was parked here. So that if one of the men shoots, it will hit me first, to cover him. I was the one who opened the door of the car and let him in,&quot; said Kiir. Kiir explained that he had no intention of harming Machar, but instead accused his then first vice president of planning to kill him. The president explained that his cancellation of a council of ministers meeting that was to take place on the morning of July 8 had probably saved his life and prevented the world&#39;s youngest nation from plunging into a worse crisis. &quot;Machar had planned that while we were in the council of ministers meeting, his men would come and open fire and I would die. And if I had died and he survived, he would declare himself president,&quot; the Head of State claimed in the interview at his presidential palace in Juba. &quot;Dr Machar was armed with a pistol,&quot; Kiir alleged. The president explained that he had asked Machar and his second vice president James Wani to come to the palace to help calm tensions. It followed an incident the previous day when Machar&#39;s bodyguards had attacked security forces at a checkpoint, killing four and a civilian doctor. Kiir went on: &quot;Riek Machar was in my hands here if I was just to grab his pistol and shoot him, who would have believed me? They would have condemned me that I lured him into the palace and killed him. I did not lure him to come and kill him. He had the intention to come and kill me.&quot; The president said throughout the clashes he ensured that he did not leave Machar alone in the room because he feared some of the enraged presidential guards, who had lost their comrades in the fighting, might have turned on him. &quot;The next challenge was how to take Machar to his house. That is why I remained. I did not allow him to remain alone because they (presidential guards) were very angry people. Those who might have lost their relatives in the action, some have lost their very good friends. So it was a mixed feeling and you will never know who would do what... I remained with him to assure him, at least to give him courage,&quot; added Kiir. He said he offered his presidential limousine because Machar&#39;s motorcade of &quot;ten or 11&quot; cars had been destroyed in the fighting. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;