&nbsp; Photo:{Courtesy} Asia Confronted by Russia in Syria, Ukraine and cyberspace, the next U.S. president will be the fourth to face Vladimir Putin and the challenge of deterring a Kremlin often more willing than the White House to take risk and project power. Over the last four years, the Russian president has annexed Crimea and destabilized eastern Ukraine, stymied U.S. hopes to oust Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and mounted cyber attacks that U.S. officials blame on hackers commanded or orchestrated by Russian intelligence agencies. In his latest gambit, Putin this week suspended a treaty with Washington on cleaning up weapons-grade plutonium. While the United States has imposed economic sanctions on Russia for its actions in Ukraine, these have yet to force it to calm tensions in eastern Ukraine, let alone surrender Crimea. Some current and former U.S. officials argue the White House has failed to understand Putin&#39;s bitterness about the decade after the Soviet Union collapsed, at a time the Russian leader feels the West took advantage of Russia when it was down. READ MORE Trump backs off praise of Russia's Putin after debate France makes new push for Aleppo ceasefire Philippine leader tells Obama 'go to hell', says can buy arms from Russia, China Further, they say the United States has little influence over the course of democracy in Russia, or on its willingness to use force in Syria, Ukraine or elsewhere to achieve its ends. The result, critics say, could be that Syria festers, Ukraine stays off balance and unable to draw closer to Europe, and that even areas such as arms control and nonproliferation, pillars of cooperation during the Cold War, could deteriorate. &quot;For Putin and most of the Russian leadership, it&rsquo;s a zero-sum world,&quot; said Andrew Weiss of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace think tank. Weiss argued the Russian leader was unlikely to change his stripes before Russia&#39;s 2018 presidential election &quot;in an atmosphere where Putin&rsquo;s own domestic political fortunes depend on having this external enemy, namely the United States&quot;. &nbsp; NO RESISTANCE SO FAR GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;