The High Court has temporarily stopped the implementation of the proposals by a task force to reform the coffee sector. This followed a petition by farmers&#39; representatives who argued the views of farmers were not incorporated into the report. According to their argument before the court, they presented a petition to the President containing farmers&#39; grievances and the Head of State in turn appointed the National Coffee Task force to collect views from farmers on matters affecting them. &quot;Despite the protest, the task force ignored our views and presented a report to the President which was gazetted on June 2, 2016 and is due for implementation any time from now,&quot; claimed their chairman Harrison Munyi. Munyi wants the court to stop Cabinet Secretary Willy Bett and Principal Secretary Richard Lesiyampe from implementing the report pending hearing and determination of the case. Respondents served READ MORE What Kenyan farmers can learn from the Dutch How to crack the dreaded New Castle Disease in your poultry Coffee theft puzzle as farmers point fingers at sector cartels Judge Joseph Onguto ordered that the respondents be served before the case is heard. The task force comprised of Nairobi Java Group Chief Executive Officer Kevin Ashley, Robin Achoki, Githuku Mwangi, Andrew Karanja, Susan Maira, Patrick Katingima and Anne Onyango. Other members were: Hiram Mwaniki, Newton Nderitu, Adrian Atugi, Paul Kukubo, Philomena Koskei, Josphat Makhanu, Nelson Gichaba Simba and AG Githu Muigai. The farmers expressed discomfort over the manner in which the task force operated, with some saying the report is only meant to protect wealthy coffee dealers. Of major concern is that the report did not address the issue of cartels, which farmers have always blamed for causing their woes, mainly around poor pay. They also want a meeting to be convened to allow them share their views before the report&#39;s recommendations are implemented. The task force recommended that farmers should receive Sh50 per kilogramme of coffee delivered. Farmers also want to be paid a Guaranteed Minimum Return Price of Sh120 per kilo as advance payment before the coffee is sold.