Opposition leader Raila Odinga yesterday made five demands to President Uhuru Kenyatta following the recent disclosure of his administration&rsquo;s borrowing spree. The demand came on the back of revelations&nbsp;that the Jubilee government had&nbsp;borrowed over Sh226 billion between January&nbsp;and July this year to finance massive&nbsp;infrastructure projects. However, the sustainability of the public&nbsp;debt, which has hit Sh3.2 trillion, split&nbsp;Jubilee and CORD leaders. Ruling coalition&nbsp;MPs said the borrowing was justified&nbsp;to spur growth.Uproar and consternation greeted revelations the government borrowed more than Sh226 billion between January and July this year, adding to the country&rsquo;s spiralling debt burden that is now more than Sh3.2 trillion. Reacting to a Treasury document tabled in the National Assembly last week and published by The Standard, leaders and experts however differed over the controversial issue of the national debt sustainability, which has in the past been criticised by politicians mainly from the Opposition as devastating to the economy in the long-term. Recent data shows the country&rsquo;s total public and publicly guaranteed debt stood at Sh3.2 trillion. This is 78 per cent, or Sh1.4 trillion, more than the Sh1.8 trillion that President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s regime inherited from the Grand Coalition government. Opposition leader Raila Odinga yesterday made five demands to President Uhuru Kenyatta that include convening a National Public Debt Conference to come up with ways of controlling the ballooning public debt. Raila challenged the President to immediately make a full disclosure on the amounts borrowed, sources of the borrowing, and repayment amounts in terms of capital and interest from January 2013 to date. READ MORE Raila meets Kipsigis elders over Sh34b dam controversy Jubilee heavy borrowing pushes Kenya's foreign debt to Sh3.2 trillion Raila Odinga raises red flag on planned second Eurobond He also wants a full disclosure on the projects financed by the borrowing giving the specifics on the type of the project, location, cost and completion time. Additionally, a re-evaluation of the government&rsquo;s priorities including the infrastructural projects, both ongoing and planned, and stopping further borrowing until an evaluation of the benefits accruing out of the amounts borrowed so far. &ldquo;Jubilee is pursuing a weird and pedestrian policy where the deeper we have gotten into debt, the more we have borrowed. Increasing public borrowing has resulted in undesirable fiscal consequences such as high interest rates, inflation and overburdening future generations. The ballooning debt is not only unsustainable, it is also unconstitutional,&rdquo; Raila said. CORD co-principal and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula argued the government&rsquo;s borrowing spree had seen the country&rsquo;s debt level quadruple in the last three years. He revealed the Opposition would stage public resistance to any further borrowing as well as lobby international lenders to stop granting loans to the Jubilee administration. &ldquo;Part of the resistance is for the public to understand the folly of borrowing by the Jubilee administration... They fumbled when we asked them to account for the Eurobond money. It was meant for capital projects but ended up doing nothing. Eurobond was for road, water and energy projects but it went into the recurrent expenditure and to pay extravagant trips they keep making all over,&rdquo; Wetang&rsquo;ula claimed. Various creditors GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;