Hundreds of passengers were plunged into panic yesterday when a ferry stalled midstream at the Likoni crossing channel and drifted towards Florida area in the open sea in Mombasa. Kenya Ferry Services&#39; flagship vessel Mv Nyayo carrying more than 1500 people on board developed engine problem and lost speed before it started drifting to the high seas. It forced KFS management to deploy Mv Kilindini to rescue Mv Nyayo and tow it safely to the Mbaraki wharf and later the KFS jetty for repair. The 8.30 am incident resulted in delays for passengers and motorists as well as heavy congestion particularly on the south mainland side of the channel. KFS managing director Bakari Gowa confirmed the incident and explained that the ferry engine failed to accelerate because pipes could not properly distribute fuel to it. &quot;This morning Mv Nyayo lost speed and started drifting towards Florida area and we had to use Mv Kilindini to rescue it. It was as a result of pipes failing to supply fuel to the engine and the problem is now being rectified. We expect the ferry to resume operations in the evening,&quot; Mr Gowa explained. READ MORE Kenya Ferry Services launches biannual cleaning exercise KPA LIFT TITLE: Mombasa based team clinch football trophy as Kecoso games end in Nakuru Two ferries break down in Mombasa Mv Kilindini, Mv Kwale and Mv Likoni were in operation yesterday in a channel that is served by at least four vessels at a go during peak hours in the morning and evenings. KFS corporate communication manager Ms Elizabeth Wachira said engineers were working round the clock to get Mv Nyayo back to operation. &quot;Mv Nyayo is the ferry that carries more passengers and therefore our engineers are working round the clock to ensure it gets back to work as soon as possible,&quot; Ms Wachira said. Ms Wachira said the prow (door) to Mv Kwale was dysfunctional and hence it could not take in vehicles and had to turn in order to land on the ramp and discharge passengers causing delays. A commuter Mr Said Yawa complained that he was stranded at the south mainland for nearly 40 minutes following the transportation hitch yesterday. &quot;I have been waiting to board a ferry for long. I am told a ferry has been withdrawn following a mechanical problem,&quot; he noted. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;