Water Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa has directed state corporation under his ministry to mobilise resources to respond to ravaging drought affecting some parts of the country. Wamalwa who was speaking during a ministerial retreat in Nakuru called on the state corporations to mobilise water bowsers to address water shortages in Arid and semi-arid parts of the country. &quot;We need to prepare for climate change especially in counties experiencing drought and extreme shortage of water. We need to help the Northern Water services board and Coast water services board help respond to drought situation,&quot; Wamalwa said. He said his ministry is working with Agriculture and Devolution ministries in a move to respond to acute drought ravaging counties in Coast and North Eastern part of the country. While addressing Chairpersons and Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) of state corporations under the water ministry, Wamalwa called on politicians to stop politicizing government projects in a bid to get political mileage. He cited the Northern Collector Tunnel project aimed at resolving water problems in Nairobi has one of the mega projects in the sector which has attracted political heat. READ MORE Prepare for drought Don't panic over my bid, Wamalwa tells aspirants Wamalwa to visit water projects in Meru He directed the Rift Valley Water Services Board to engage with stakeholders in Kericho and Nakuru Counties to resolve emerging issues on the Sh38Billion Itare dam in Kuresoi South which has generated heated debate in the area. &quot;I want to ask politicians not to politicise water projects which are intended at benefiting Kenyans. We have already agreed with Italian partners and any issues should be resolved,&quot; he said. He said the government is on course to meet it One million-acre irrigation programme with Gulana-Kulalu project on course beside small holder irrigations projects in various parts of the country. Wamalwa noted that the government is currently implementing 57 small holder projects which will put 26,500 acres under irrigation once completed. He added that the government aims at putting at least 1000 acres under irrigation in all the 47 counties to boost food security in the country. He also urged the parastatals to ensure continuous repayment of loans guaranteed by Treasury to ensure the sector maintains good credit worth and attract ore funding from development partners. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;