&nbsp; {Photo:Courtesy} Beirut:A Syrian filmmaker whose harrowing footage of sarin gas victims in 2013 was seen around the world is using his experience of the attack and conflict to make a drama looking at why people take up arms in a war which began as a peaceful revolution. Humam Husari&#39;s self-financed short film explores the chemical attack near Damascus through the eyes of a rebel fighter who lost his wife and child but was denied time to bury them. Instead, he is called to defend his town from a government offensive. The story is based on real-life events, he said. &quot;We need to understand how people were pushed into this war and to be part of it,&quot; said Husari, 30. &quot;I am talking about a story that I lived with. They are real characters.&quot; U.N. investigators established that sarin gas was used in parts of the rebel-held Ghouta suburbs of the Syrian capital Damascus in 2013. The United States accused Syria&#39;s government of conducting the attack, which it estimated killed around 1,400 people, but Damascus denied responsibility and blamed rebels. Making the film was an emotional but necessary experience for Husari and his performers, who were witnesses to and victims of the attack, and not trained actors. READ MORE German police detain two in Chemnitz manhunt, find explosives Bomb kills 25, mostly foreign-backed rebels in north Syria: witnesses Russian, Syrian missiles pound Aleppo &quot;The most difficult thing was the casting and auditions,&quot; said Husari, who took about two months to write, produce and direct the 15-minute film and is currently editing it. &quot;A 70-year-old man said to me: I want to be part of this movie because I lost 13 of my family ... I want the world to know what we&#39;ve been through. And all I wanted from him is just to be a dead body,&quot; he said. &quot;I was amazed with how much those people were able to express their tragedy and to cooperate with me on this movie.&quot; Syria&#39;s civil war has killed hundreds of thousands of people and displaced 11 million -- about half of Syria&#39;s pre-conflict population. It has caused a refugee crisis in the Middle East and Europe and drawn in regional and global powers. Mohamed Demashki, a business student and professional bodybuilder before the war who plays the main character, said he took part in the film because of its message. &quot;It tries to convey to the world that the people who live here are not just fighters, they are not terrorists. They are people with a life. The war conditions them to become fighters,&quot; he said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;