The International Children&#39;s Peace Prize winner simply known as Kesz had this to say of street families: &ldquo;I grew up on a dumpsite where nothing is clean. My family had adopted the living style of garbage collectors. Life was not fair at all since sewage canals were our bathing and relaxing zones.&quot; Today, millions of children are living hopeless lives in the streets of major towns across the country. They live for today with no idea what tomorrow has for them or whether the next day will find them alive or dead. Most of them have turned into beggars while others have been cast into the world of crime. They have joined gangs and drug cartels while others have gone on to abuse narcotics. Future generations are therefore imperiled by these vices. Within their own little world, they struggle for survival without much success&nbsp; - many end up strangled to death by colleagues. Their numbers are increasing rapidly in proportion to increased easy access to drugs, growing immorality, peer pressure, poverty and child abuse. READ MORE Pipeline&rsquo;s land donation to street families blocked by Ardhi House barons Statistics by Consortium of Street Children show that in 1999, the number of street children was estimated at 50,000 in Nairobi alone. In 2007, it was estimated that between 250,000 and 300,000 children were living on the streets of Kenyan towns. We often hear of street children being abused, yet it is the quest for a shilling or two that has seen some of them willingly subject themselves to sexual abuse. Sexual abusers have a tendency to turn to children who are less likely to defend themselves. Charges against sexual offenders are hard to prove due to the victim&rsquo;s fear that if they expose the offenders, they might get into more trouble. Lack of adequate information and awareness also plays a part. The affluent are not all about glitter and gold. Some of them are suspected drug dealers who exploit street children to transport drugs across the country for a small fee. Ever wondered what the &quot;chokora&quot;, as street children are more commonly known, carry in their sacks? And why is it that if anybody touches these sacks they become very aggressive? Well, your guess is as good as mine. Recently, there was an incident in Brazil where street families were eliminated during a clean-up in preparation for the Rio Olympics. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;