Sometime last year while conducting research into the various countries in which devolution has worked, I came across a report that took an in-depth look at the successes and challenges of decentralising power. The report stated that in some cases, it could take up to 50 years to fully reap the fruits of a devolved system of administration. My first reaction was that we do not have 50 years to wait to live in a properly functioning state. And it still is. To call Kenya&rsquo;s devolution process a success or a failure is an oversimplification of the significant nuances and complexities that accompany any kind of power shift. And I do acknowledge that for some regions of the country, this is the best gift that they could ever have received. Regions now have access to water, roads; however rudimentary that are now passable, leaders that are accessible and visible &ndash; the list goes on. And I cannot minimize the impact that this makes on counties and regions that previously felt marginalized and sidelined. However, the biggest risk that could befall us is interpreting these instances, however positive, as indicators of success. They are not, not by a long shot. READ MORE Anti-graft team confronts Mombasa MCAs over Sh1m bribery claim More strides in Kenya's learning sector after devolution Senior county officers in Central and South Rift to quit for 2017 polls There are a multitude of reasons why I can see devolution taking close to 50 years to work and bring us close to any semblance of proper governance. The first is, obviously, our leadership or the lack of it. Because of the decades upon decades of marginalisation and poor governance that we have faced, instead of ground zero we are starting from a negative place. The political elite have long been condemned for the lack of attention to certain regions for various reasons, whether from an economic contribution perspective or deep-seated alliances. Achieving equality therefore requires fulfilling the most rudimentary needs for citizens in places where government has been virtually non-existent since independence. In the same way, elected representatives from those regions, be it governors, MCAs or senators are plagued by the same afflictions. We thrust individuals into situations where the amount of money they could make was now only limited by their ambition, or to put it more bluntly, greed. And sadly, found out that this knows no bounds. The latest audit into the Constitution shows some interesting but predictable results. It says that Kenyans are overrepresented by lawmakers and recommends certain changes which will be debated by the same Parliamentarians. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;