A director of procurement in the Office of the President has said contracts for the multi-billion shilling Anglo-Leasing projects were done in accordance with the law. Kenneth Mwangi told the Anti-Corruption Court in Nairobi that the projects, aimed at modernising police operations, was not a one-off affair but involved several ministries and approval by the Attorney General. &quot;The procurement processes were done in accordance with the prevailing regulations. There was no conspiracy on how the process was done as it involved several government ministries and all relevant departments,&quot; he said. Mr Mwangi added that the government was justified in using the direct procurement method, given that the project involved sensitive national security systems that required secrecy. According to him, the country was facing security threats and fears of terrorists attacks in 2003, which justified the urgent need to equip the police department with new surveillance systems. POLICE EQUIPMENT He told the court that former Internal Security Permanent Secretary Dave Mwangi followed the correct procedure when he initiated the process of acquiring police equipment by seeking the authority of former ministers Chris Murungaru and David Mwiraria. &quot;When Treasury received the request, they did not just approve the project, which was being funded through an external loan, but also raised issues that were addressed and saw the reduction of the interest charged on the loan,&quot; he said. At the time of the scandal in 2003, Mwangi was the director of public procurement in the Treasury. He was testifying in a case in which former permanent secretaries Dave Mwangi and Joseph Magari, former head of Debt Management David Onyonka, businessmen Deepak Kamani and Rashmi Kamani are facing trial for conspiracy to defraud the government. They allegedly conspired to defraud Sh6.5 billion through computerisation of police projects, acquiring Sh121 million to modernise police surveillance systems, failing to comply with procurement rules and engaging in a project to modernise police security system without planning. The hearing continues. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;