NAIROBI: The search for the country&#39;s Deputy Chief Justice kicks off today. The Judicial Service Commission (JSC) will start the two-week marathon interviews for 15 candidates seeking to succeed retired Lady Justice Kalpana Rawal. JSC last week nominated Court of Appeal judge David Maraga for the Chief Justice position but his nomination awaits presidential and parliamentary approval.&nbsp; Dr Isaac Michael Rutenberg is the only male candidate vying for the position of Deputy Chief Justice after David Mwaure Waihiga opted out of the race. The commission is in race to fill the gap of DCJ and bring quorum to the Supreme Court which has not sat since June following the retirement of Dr Willy Mutunga, Lady Justice Rawal and Justice Philip Tunoi. JSC chairperson Prof Margaret Kobia commended the commission for making the tough decision in nominating Dr Mutunga&#39;s successor and said the same procedure will be used in selecting the DCJ. READ MORE It&rsquo;s now the turn of MPs to vet Maraga for CJ job Poverty could not stop ambitious Maraga from achieving his dreams Maraga is the antidote Judiciary needs, colleagues say &quot;We have successfully concluded the interviews for the CJ and this week we will focus on who will deputise him. We will consider the candidate based on what the job entails guided by the constitutional requirements for that position,&quot; said Prof Kobia. Since the JSC has settled for a man for the CJ, the DCJ is likely to be a female to conform to the gender balance principle at the Supreme Court which currently only has Lady Justice Njoki Ndung&#39;u among the male judges. High Court Judge Lady Justice Abida Ali-Aroni will be the first to face the JSC panel in the morning before Appellate Judge Agnes Murgor follows in the afternoon. Court of Appeal Judges Fatuma Sichale and Hannah Okwengu will be interviewed on Tuesday while lawyer Joyce Majiwa and Justice Lydia Achode will have their day on Wednesday. On Thursday, Lady Justice Martha Koome and former commissioner with the defunct Electoral Commission of Kenya Pamela Tutui take up the challenge. The commission will have a break on Friday but resume the interviews on Monday next week when Lady Justices Pauline Nyamweya and Philomena Mwilu will be interviewed. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;