U.S.A: The U.S. military launched cruise missile strikes on Thursday to knock out three coastal radar sites in areas of Yemen controlled by Iran-aligned Houthi forces, retaliating after failed missile attacks this week on a U.S. Navy destroyer, U.S. officials said. The strikes, authorized by President Barack Obama, represent Washington&#39;s first direct military action against suspected Houthi-controlled targets in Yemen&#39;s conflict. Still, the Pentagon appeared to stress the limited nature of the strikes, aimed at radar that enabled the launch of at least three missiles against the U.S. Navy ship USS Mason on Sunday and Wednesday. &quot;These limited self-defense strikes were conducted to protect our personnel, our ships and our freedom of navigation,&quot; Pentagon spokesman Peter Cook said. U.S. officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said U.S. Navy destroyer USS Nitze launched the Tomahawk cruise missiles around 4 a.m. (0100 GMT). &quot;These radars were active during previous attacks and attempted attacks on ships in the Red Sea,&quot; including the USS Mason, one of the officials said, adding the targeted radar sites were in remote areas where the risk of civilian casualties was low. READ MORE Obama says Trump's comments on women disqualifying Cholera outbreak spreading in Yemen - WHO Hundreds stranded in North Carolina floods after Hurricane Matthew The official identified the areas in Yemen where the radar were located as near Ras Isa, north of Mukha and near Khoka. Shipping sources told Reuters sites were hit in the Dhubab district of Taiz province, a remote area overlooking the Bab al-Mandab Straight known for fishing and smuggling. SAFE PASSAGE The failed missile attacks on the USS Mason appeared to be part of the reaction to a suspected Saudi-led strike on mourners gathered in Yemen&#39;s Houthi-held capital Sanaa. The Houthis, who are battling the internationally-recognized government of Yemen President Abd Rabbu Mansour al-Hadi, denied any involvement in Sunday&#39;s attempt to strike the USS Mason. On Thursday, the Houthis reiterated a denial that they carried out the strikes and said they did not come from areas under their control, a news agency controlled by the group reported a military source as saying. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;