Mombasa, Kenya: Listening to Haniya Said Saggar defend her late husband Sheikh Aboud Rogo reminds older readers of Yoko Ono&#39;s steadfast defense of the late John Lennon until his death and after. Lennon who co-founded The Beatles lived a complicated life, filled with drugs and women and ended up dying by the bullet. Haniya, an articulate woman with a heart of steel and intellectual ability defended Rogo&#39;s honour in life and death and came close to death for that. On August 27 2012 when her husband was killed by assassins she was shot in the left leg and left for dead and remains wounded to date. Rogo&#39;s murder, two weeks after the US and UN had placed him on a sanctions list for alleged terrorist funding unleashed four days of rioting, murder, pillage and arson across Mombasa. Less than 24 hours later Rogo&#39;s unwashed body was buried by supporters at a local cemetery. Supporters believed they were justified to bury it unwashed to demonstrate he had achieved martyrdom by dying violently in defence of Islam. Mainstream muslim preachers who lived in fear of Rogo criticized the burial claiming his supporters had misunderstood what is jihad. READ MORE Arrest made in arson at Florida mosque where gunman prayed Three terror suspects to undergo medical tests, Mombasa court Human rights report: 300 killed or kidnapped in anti-terror raids Four months later when she spoke to The Standard Haniya insisted her husband had achieved martyrdom. &quot;I consider him a martyr because the [Muslim] religion says anyone who dies in an oppressive death is a martyr,&quot; said Haniya as she defended her husband&#39;s complicated life and violent sermons. Later Haniya told a journalist that she had refused to re-marry to dedicate her life to &quot;teaching madrassa (Islamic school),&quot; a job she has been doing alongside small scale farming in Kanamai since she became a widow. Today Haniya find herself in trouble with the law again with police claiming she may have inspired last Sunday&#39;s terrorist carnage on Central police station in Mombasa, apparently, through Tasnim Yakub Abdullahi Farah who, detectives claim she communicated with before the attack. Tasnim is one of the three women who perished in the attack and her body lies unclaimed at the Coast General Hospital. Following Rogo&#39;s death Haniya remained out of the limelight for just four months. She was back in the news when police raided her home in Kanamai to arrest her then 17 year old son Khubaib. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 4 Next &raquo;