KISUMU: Komoro village in Nyakach, Kisumu County was Thursday engulfed in grief as friends and relatives of former veteran trade unionist Denis Akumu came to terms with the news of his death. Chuth Ber Akumu Jakogero, as he was commonly known in the village, had his last breath on Thursday morning at the Aga Khan University Hospital in Nairobi after a long illness. Memories of his brave but simple life as a trade unionist and a politician ringed in the minds of those who shared podium with him, with most of them describing him as &#39;the only Luo Politician who ever earned trust&#39; from Kenyan First President Jomo Kenyatta. At one point he had to use a lorry as his mode of private transport for his safety at the heart of the 1969 Central Organisation of Trade Union (Cotu) elections. Akumu was COTU (K)&#39;s Secretary General from 1969 to 1975 and a founder Secretary General of the Organisation of African Trade Union Unity, (OATUU) based in Accra, Ghana. Cotu Secretary General Francis Atwoli described him as an international icon who had immense contribution in the betterment of the welfare of workers. READ MORE Ignore Atwoli at your own peril, Luhya politicians warned Labour Court bars Unilever from sacking workers &quot;He was a well versed, polished and trained negotiator whose service as a Trade Union leader to the Kenyan workers and Africa as whole will forever remain in the annuals of our history as a leader who served with zeal and commitment devoid of any neither compromise nor sway,&quot; said Atwoli. According to Akumu&rsquo;s long-time friend and driver Mzee Nyamolo Okal who was born in the same year with him 83 years ago, he was suspicious of threats by his opponents in the Cotu Secretary General election which he had won, but was contested. &quot;Mr Akumu felt his life was in danger, and some friends advised him that the opponents would use any means to assassinate him, so I had to drive him in a lorry to private functions within Nairobi as we felt the lorry could stand any initiated suicidal road accident compared to the small cars he used previously,&quot; said Okal. &quot;Akumu was the remaining Tom Mboya. He was brilliant and conscious in his deeds and the late Jomo Kenyatta once told us that the only Luos he comfortably had physical contacts with were Tom Mboya and Denis Akumu,&quot; said Okal. The late Akumu attended Onjiko Intermediary School in the 1940s before undertaking a medical course which enabled him serve as a public health officer in the Nairobi Municipal Council. He had an ambition of proceeding with his education abroad, and after getting admission to join a university in India, he could not raise enough money for the fees and the dream dwindled before he moved to Mombasa where he joined politics. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;