ASIA: Dozens of children line up for bread on the side of a road in Eastern Ghouta, a rebel-held area near Damascus. In scenes described by a witness, their belongings are piled up on the gravel -- blankets, old mattresses, sandbags stuffed with clothes -- until the families can figure out their next destination. They are some of the thousands of people who have fled their homes in recent months, as government forces have steadily encroached on the biggest rebel stronghold near Syria&#39;s capital. Since a ceasefire collapsed last month, international attention has been focused on a major attack by President Bashar al-Assad&#39;s government forces and his allies on the northern city of Aleppo. But hundreds of miles south, the government&#39;s gradual, less-publicized advance around Damascus may be of equal importance to course of a war in its sixth year, and is also causing hardship for civilians under siege. Government troops, backed by Russian air power and Iranian-backed militias, have been snuffing out pockets of rebellion near the capital, notably taking the suburb Daraya after forcing surrender on besieged rebels. The densely-populated rural area east of Damascus known as the Eastern Ghouta has been besieged since 2013 and is much larger and harder to conquer than Daraya. READ MORE Government must rid Aleppo of 'terrorists' to protect civilians: Assad Coalition warplanes kill 20 Islamic State militants in Syria: Turkish army Syrian bombing suspect in Germany spoke to IS contact about attack plans Government advances are forcing people to flee deeper into its increasingly overcrowded towns, and the loss of farmland is piling pressure on scarce food supplies. Several hundred thousand people are believed to be trapped inside the besieged area, similar in scale to the 250,000 civilians under siege in Aleppo. &quot;People were on top of each other in the trucks and cars,&quot; said Maamoun Abu Yasser, 29, recalling how people fled the al-Marj area where he lived earlier this year, as the army captured swathes of farmland. Abu Yasser said he and a few friends tried to hold out for as long as possible, but the air strikes became unbearable. &quot;The town was almost empty. I was scared that if we got bombed, there would be nobody to help us,&quot; he told Reuters by phone. &quot;We couldn&rsquo;t sleep much at night. We were afraid we&#39;d fall into the regime&#39;s hands. It would probably be better to die in the bombardment.&quot; SEEKING SHELTER GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;