Police impostor Joshua Waiganjo invited friends to a Kenya Forest Services rangers&#39; passing-out parade through his father.&nbsp; David Ngige Kimani, a witness in a case in which Waiganjo is charged with impersonating a senior police officer, told the court he attended the event in Londiani after Waiganjo&#39;s father called requesting his company. The retired teacher operating a matatu business said Waiganjo&#39;s father, Iphrahim Waiganjo, a bishop, invited him to attend the parade as a family friend and an elder with the Full Gospel Church. Kimani said the bishop called him on September 2, 2012 inviting him to the function. &quot;The bishop and father to Waiganjo invited me to attend the passing-out parade after he had been invited by his son. He said he needed company,&quot; said Kimani. Kimani told the court they met at Jams Hotel near Afraha Stadium in Nakuru County where they had breakfast before setting off to Londiani. They were driven in a private car, which he said belonged to Waiganjo. He told the court there were Land Rovers from Ndeffo and Njoro police posts, which accompanied them and in which Waiganjo rode. Upon reaching Londiani, he said they were received warmly and given seats at the dais, where they sat. Waiganjo sat a few seats in front of them. Mr Kimani told the court his friend&#39;s son was in full police uniform during the function. He said they enjoyed the occasion and to him it was such a special honour he may not have another opportunity to enjoy. The church elder said he was amazed as they were saluted by the many officers who passed by the dais. They made us feel very important, he said. &quot;We enjoyed. It was such a special event, and I think I will never get another opportunity like that one. I was surprised and felt like an important person as the officers saluted us,&quot; he said. After the parade, Kimani said they went for lunch together with Waiganjo. However, he did not enjoy the lunch as much because he was not feeling well. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;