The Raila Odinga-led Orange Democratic Movement party has assured aspirants that nominations ahead of next year&#39;s elections will be free and fair. Executive Director Oduor Ong&#39;wen yesterday dismissed claims that some party officials have preferred candidates for some positions even before the nominations. &quot;I want to clarify that nominations are the sole responsibility of the National Elections Board (NEB), which will give the timetable and other details as far as the exercise is concerned,&quot; Mr Ong&#39;wen said. &quot;Members of the National Executive Committee (NEC) have no role whatsoever in the management of party primaries and should therefore desist from commenting on the them as this creates unnecessary panic and anxiety among our members. The party has not prepared a list of preferred candidates for any seat and rumours to that effect should be treated with the contempt they deserve,&quot; he added. He said those claiming to have such a list were out to subvert the party&#39;s rules and regulations, and would face automatic disqualification if found. And as ODM was making efforts to stem anxiety sparked by claims that some top officials had preferred candidates, leader Raila Odinga left for a three-day trip to Germany. READ MORE Why Governor Joho should take ODM&rsquo;s leadership President Uhuru, Opposition leader Raila political rivalry plays out during Ntimama's burial Expedite signing of electoral reforms Bill ahead of Kenya's 2017 polls Raila led a delegation of business and political leaders for a series of engagements with their German counterparts. The trip is aimed at promoting business ties between various Kenyan counties and German firms. Among the firms Raila and his delegation will visit are agricultural implements manufacture Deere, Heidelberg Cement and technology firm Siemens. He is also expected to meet Kenyans in Frankfurt. Meanwhile, Ong&#39;wen told election hopefuls not to pay nomination fees to any individuals but to the national secretariat for which official receipts must be obtained. &quot;ODM finds allegations that some people have paid or are about to pay money to certain individuals to influence their nomination disturbing,&quot; said Ong&#39;wen. There are claims some governors, senators and MPs who do not have Raila&#39;s blessings will be short-changed and certain candidates handed nomination certificates, claims Ong&#39;wen denied. MPs Syvance Osele (Kabondo Kasipul), Omondi Anyanga (Nyatike) and Nicholas Gumbo (Rarieda) admitted that some people were posing as Raila&#39;s agents with a view to collecting money from aspirants.