NEW YORK: Deputy President William Ruto has defended himself against claims of corruption and land grabbing. The DP attributed his property and business empire to hard work. Asked how he was dealing with the perception that he is corrupt, the DP said he acquired his wealth through hard work, reiterating that people should not be judged based on their background in society. In an interview with Kenyan journalists in New York, USA, on the sidelines of a United Nations meeting, Ruto noted that society was &ldquo;very cruel, especially to those who rise to the top from humble beginnings&rdquo;. Although he did not discuss any specific allegations levelled against him, Ruto, who has styled himself as a &lsquo;hustler&rsquo; (one who has had to struggle to make it) said he was &ldquo;very proud&rdquo; of who he had become today. &ldquo;I have got here by sheer hard work. I have not been appointed to any position since I left school. Every position I got, I competitively got it. I have worked hard for it and I have not gotten a lift from anybody,&rdquo; Ruto said in response to questions about his wealth. &ldquo;I am very proud of my record. I understand that many people have a problem with the son of a peasant getting this far because normally it does not happen. But we have to wake up to a new reality that this is a Kenya where every child, irrespective of their background, where they come from, data of their parents - whether they are poor or where they come from - has a chance,&rdquo; said the DP. READ MORE Nairobi's water puzzle needs answers now Governor Mutua to face charges over purchase of 16 vehicles Peoples power in fight against corruption NEGATIVE IMAGE Ruto, who has even had a public spat with former Lugari MP Cyrus Jirongo &mdash; with whom he worked in the defunct YK 92 Kanu youth lobby group &mdash; about the speed with which he amassed wealth, responded that he was not at all moved by the claims. He said Jirongo should know he knew how &ldquo;kujipanga&rdquo; (how to organise oneself). Ruto blamed the negative image on unnamed persons who he said were envious of his quick rise and were attempting to take him down. &ldquo;I understand some people have a problem with how far I have come. I have seen people complaining how did William Ruto get here? &ldquo;So I understand perfectly the people who believe that the only way to get anywhere is to through shortcuts. We must all have an equal chance. It cuts both ways,&rdquo; he added. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;