FUNYULA, KENYA: Funyula MP Paul Otuoma said he is ready to take up any leadership role in ODM, about three months after resigning as the party&#39;s national vice chairman. Otuoma further dismissed claims that his relationship with Budalangi MP Ababu Namwamba had become sour. The two resigned together in early July and Namwamba has since joined Labour Party of Kenya as the party leader. Otuoma did not attend the Labour Party of Kenya&#39;s re-branding though he was invited for the event in Nairobi. Otuoma confirmed that the two were in communication and that taking different political paths did not mean they are enemies. &quot;Ababu is my brother and whatever political move he takes, I support him. By not attending the event doesn&#39;t make us enemies. The most paramount aspect here is that we have a course to serve the people of Busia and we are set to achieve it through diversity,&quot; Said Otuoma Speaking to the Standard, Otuoma maintained that he was still a strong member of the ODM and that at no one time did he leave the party to join another outfit. &quot;I have been meeting county delegates since I resigned and I am now ready to take up any party responsibility whenever need arises,&quot; he explained. &quot;People should not say I have come back to ODM as if I had left the party. I am and have been an ODM member and what I did was only to relieve myself from party leadership and I explained to Kenyans why,&quot; added Otuoma. His sentiments comes just few days after hosting ODM party leader Raila Odinga and Busia council of elders in his Funyula home for a consultative closed door meeting. During the meeting, Raila assured elders that he will never interfere with ODM affairs in Busia. Otuoma said he was ready to battle it out with Busia governor Sospeter Ojaamong in the ODM gubernatorial primaries next year. He accused Ojaamong of not doing enough to consolidate the Teso region to support ODM noting that both the Teso North and Teso South constituencies were fully in Jubilee. &quot;Let Ojaamong tell us when he ever held a delegates meeting to discuss party issues. He can&#39;t keep waiting for a direct party ticket and he has failed to bring the former Amagoro which he was the MP into ODM&quot; Lamented Otuoma.