Female Genital Mutilation has a direct correlation to early marriage, two social evil practices that stalk our society, despite the gains in the recent past. These are some of the most harmful cultural practices that confront girls and women today, variously camouflaged as rites of passage, sexual purity or religious fulfillment. They have severe consequences on the victims&rsquo; health, education and their equality in society. World Vision has argued that early marriage can have significant mental health impacts, such as anxiety and depression, occasioned by the physical implications, which can also include abuse and the social isolation experienced by child spouses, who are often removed from their families and withdrawn from school. On the other hand, FGM violates the right to health, security and physical integrity of the person; the right to be free from torture and cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment; and right to life when the procedure results in death. It interferes with healthy genital tissue and can affect a girl&rsquo;s or a woman&rsquo;s physical and mental. FGM is nearly always carried out on children and is therefore a violation of the rights of the child, as it causes irreparable damage and lifelong suffering to the child. In some communities, once a girl has undergone FGM, she is &ldquo;ready&rdquo; for marriage. This leads to termination of her education, early marriage, pregnancy and a vicious cycle of domestic violence and poverty. At least 9.3 million girls and women in Kenya have undergone FGM, or 6.64 percent of an estimated 140 million girls and women cut worldwide. READ MORE Mombasa Court frees schoolgirl who wants to get married How women endeavours hold the world up Schoolgirl, 14, flees from home to avoid father's plans to marry her off In 2014, according to the Kenya Demographic and Health Survey, the national FGM prevalence stood at 21 per cent, down from 27 per cent in 2009, the highest drop in national FGM prevalence rates recorded in the world. The survey indicates female circumcision is less common among younger women and is perhaps on the decline: 11 per cent of women aged between 15-19 years are circumcised compared with over 20 per cent among women over age 30. Over 40 per cent of women aged 45-49 are circumcised. Further, education is a long-term tool to empower society to abandon harmful practices that add no value to lives, and, crucially, it delays marriage. Investing in girls&rsquo; education has significant benefits to them, their families and communities. The inclusion of FGM information in schools&rsquo; curricula, colleges and universities can be an effective long-term strategy in abandonment of the practice. It is an indication that we are beginning to confront what has been described by experts as the &ldquo;persistence of traditional stereotypes of masculinity&rdquo;, which pin girls and women to an outdated and selfish cultural environment of repression and contempt, with positive outcomes. It has also been argued that the social drivers of FGM and early marriages&rsquo; harmful cultural practices included limited economic opportunities for women and girls, religious misconceptions, control of sexual activity and gender inequalities and norms. This puts similarities of the two in clear perspective. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;