A county assembly committee has cleared fish from China, arguing the imports are necessary to curb shortages. The Fisheries, Livestock and National Resources Committee report, which is yet to be adopted by the House, also noted that the imports were necessary to help bridge a supply gap. The committee said the production of fish from Lake Victoria had been reducing drastically over the years, dropping from 5,000 metric tonnes in 2000 to the current 2,600 metric tonnes per year. Committee chairperson Fanuel Aim said the gradual increase in the county&#39;s population had raised the demand for fish thus encouraging imports. &ldquo;The county has a deficit of about 4,000 metric tonnes, which can only be bridged by importing from either counties or countries,&rdquo; said Mr Aim. The Ahero/Onjiko MCA revealed that fish trade between the county and China began in 2012. The county also exports Nile Perch worth millions to China. READ MORE Two die while siphoning oil from ship in Kisumu Port Why Lake Victoria fish caging is goldmine for investors and locals State builds first primary school on Lake Victoria island &ldquo;We equally export to China frozen Nile Perch fillets. Last year, 100 metric tonnes worth Sh140 million was exported to China,&rdquo; he said. He also dispelled fears that the fish from China was not safe for human consumption. The committee observed that the quality of the imported fish was not only thoroughly inspected by the Kenya Bureau of Standards at the entry points but also checked in the country of origin. &ldquo;All fish is normally checked at the entry point by a competent authority, state department of fisheries, before it is allowed into the country,&rdquo; said the committee chairman. However, the committee called for new regulations to guide the imports so that they do not kill the local market. &ldquo;We are optimistic that the Fisheries and Aquaculture Bill yet to be tabled in the House will help by introducing penalties and taxes on imported commodities including fish,&rdquo; said Aim, who presented the report in the House last week. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;