Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) has skipped a training organised by the teachers&#39; employer ahead of new pay negotiations. However, the Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers (KUPPET) representatives are attending&nbsp;the Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) training, which is being conducted by Federation of Kenya Employers (FKE) on behalf of Teachers Service Commission (TSC). The five-day training at Tom Mboya Labour College was meant for national leaders from both Knut and Kuppet, who are due to hold talks with TSC on a new five-year CBA that is expected to be effective in October. Both unions have made proposals of between 200 and 300 per cent pay rise, but TSC has declined to be drawn into public discussions on the pay demands. With a showdown expected between Knut officials and TSC, the organisers yesterday barred the media from attending the meeting, saying it was &quot;not meant for coverage&quot;. Sources from the meeting said Knut officials were conspicuously missing from the training. READ MORE Teachers may have &lsquo;papers&rsquo;, but please peg pay on performance KNEC should streamline payments for teachers TSC maintains role of recruiting and transferring head teachers In an interview, Knut Chairman Mudzo Nzili emphasised that they will not attend the training. &quot;What is this meeting? We are not part of that meeting. Knut started a long time ago, yet we have never been trained by the employer to negotiate with it,&quot; said Nzili. He added: &quot;You cannot be trained by your mother-in-law on how to seduce her daughter. It has never happened. We cannot go there. As the leader of the delegation, we shall not be part of that training,&quot; he vowed. However, Kuppet Secretary General Akello Misori confirmed that he was attending the training that began yesterday. Also in attendance are Omboko Milemba (Kuppet chairman), Paul Maingi (organising secretary), Moses Nthurima (deputy secretary general), Catherine Wambilyanga (secretary, gender) Sammy Chelang&#39;a (secretary, tertiary education), and Edward Obwocha (national secretary, secondary). TSC representatives included Human Resource and Development director Josephine Maundu, Mary Rotich (director, teacher management), among others. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;