Former Devolution Cabinet Secretary Anne Waiguru has received blessings from the Kikuyu Council of Elders to run for the Kirinyaga governor&#39;s seat. During yesterday&#39;s ritual, Waiguru was dressed in Kikuyu traditional attire and ornaments won by leaders, with oil poured on her head. She also received a rod for her turbulent journey. The elders, led by their Patron Reverend Benson Warui, performed the ceremony in a Kutus town hotel. The ritual was climaxed by Waiguru being brought at the altar accompanied by three women, all bare foot. After prayers in the local dialect, she was donned with the traditional attire that ultimately gave her the blessings to traverse the county selling her election agenda. Warui, 89, has over the years been tasked by his colleagues to perform the ritual whenever a new crop of people emerges wishing to seek political leadership. READ MORE Kipsigis Council of Elders oppose construction of dam Bukusu elders now reject negotiated democracy Waiguru declares interest in Kirinyaga County governor's post &quot;I have been honoured by the elders to be the one who performs all the blessing ceremonies for those who wish to seek elective positions in this county,&quot; he said. Warui said the elders were particularly impressed by the good work Waiguru undertook in Kibera slum, Nairobi, where she is famed to have built modern sanitation facilities for residents. &quot;Our daughter was able to do the unimaginable when she worked day and night to bring to an end the shame of the residents of the densely populated slum, who used the flying toilets due to lack of the sanitation facilities,&quot; he said. Waiguru said she would not have embarked on her campaigns without the elders&#39; blessings as the Kikuyu traditions demand. She said after declaring her intent to run for governor in the General Election, the next crucial hurdle was the mandatory blessings from the elders. &quot;I now feel highly elated having received the blessings from my fathers and guardians to wade though this murky world of politics,&quot; Waiguru said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;