A man hacked his brother to death following a protracted family land dispute. Residents of Ihindu village along the Nairobi-Nakuru highway were left in shock as police moved in to collect the body. The suspect and his two accomplices were arrested hours after the incident as relatives tried to come to terms with the heinous act. Body parts were littered in the vast compound with blood splattered on walls and personal effects. A witness, Abel Wambugu, said the two brothers had for years clashed over a parcel of land that belonged to their parents. Wambugu added the suspect hired two other men to beat up his brother after he started farming on the disputed land. &quot;The attack was well planned and the three men turned against the deceased using machetes and other crude weapons,&quot; he said. The neighbour added that they were attracted by screams only to be confronted by the attackers who warned anyone against assisting the bleeding man. READ MORE Lee Kinyanjui joins race to unseat Nakuru Governor Kinuthia Mbugua Two convicts set free from life jail terms in defilement cases for lack of evidence Nakuru patients' agony as court declines to stop doctors' strike &quot;The three escaped from the scene on realising that police had been called in but they were arrested a couple of hours later hiding in a house,&quot; he said. A senior police officer who declined to be named confirmed the incident, adding that the three would be charged in court. And in the nearby Nyondia village, a weekend excursion by a group of teenagers ended on a sour note after one of them drowned in River Karati. The boy had joined his colleagues in swimming in a flooded section of the river when he was swept away during the midday incident. Emotions ran high among his colleagues and relatives as police and divers moved in to retrieve the body before taking it to Naivasha sub-county hospital mortuary. A witness, Simon Ng&#39;ang&#39;a, said this was not the first time that the boys had converged at the scene to swim, terming the incident tragic. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;