Battle lines for the governorship, currently held by Kivutha Kibwana, have been drawn. With barely a year to the next general election, talks of the county&rsquo;s future political leadership have dominated both public and private meetings, with the newly launched Jubilee Party said to be laying the groundwork to front a candidate. Makueni, which is Ukambani&rsquo;s second largest county by geographical size after Kitui, experienced a turbulent beginning when residents petitioned President Uhuru Kenyatta to dissolve the devolved unit following a series of wrangles between the executive and the assembly, which paralysed development for nearly two years. Tough battle Prof Kibwana, who was elected on a Muungano Party ticket, is staring at a tough political battle from a host of opponents who have declared interest in the seat. Among them is youthful Sports Kenya Board chairman Fred Muteti, who is the latest aspirant to go public about his intention to unseat the former law professor. READ MORE Kenyan politicians in race to control funds Kanu still a force in Rift, senator tells new Jubilee Joint nomination row threatens registration of CORD as party Mr Muteti, who is the immediate former secretary general of Deputy President William Ruto&rsquo;s dissolved United Republican Party, has been widely touted as one of the key Jubilee Party point men in lower Eastern region. He made the declaration at a funeral in Makueni constituency at the weekend, in the presence of the governor. &ldquo;I want to declare that the time for youthful leadership has come and I feel flexible enough to fit in the shoes of Prof Kibwana. I&rsquo;m calling on the people of Makueni to get ready to make it a reality come next year,&rdquo; said Muteti. In the 2013 general election, Muteti lost to Daniel Maanzo in his quest for the Makueni parliamentary seat. But Prof Kibwana said he would fight to retain his seat and alluded to Muteti&rsquo;s lack of experience. &ldquo;This leadership people crave is not an easy thing. You will have to sacrifice a lot and be ready to serve the people without thinking about yourself,&rdquo; he said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;