Politics in West Pokot County continues to hot up as Governor Simon Kachapin and Senator John Lonyangapuo engage in supremacy battles ahead of the 2017 elections. Political bigwigs in Jubilee led by Deputy President William Ruto are plotting a win of votes in a county considered a Kanu stronghold. Mr Kachapin&rsquo;s decision to ditch Kanu in July and join the soon to be launched Jubilee Party has seen the former ruling party leaders work round the clock to mark their territory. Mr Lonyangapuo of Kanu is seeking to unseat the Governor, a former ally. Interestingly, in previous elections, the two were political allies and worked together to clinch their current seats on a Kanu ticket. West Pokot has been a predominantly a Kanu zone but Ruto has recently made forays into the area to convince local leaders to embrace Jubilee Party. But on its part, Kanu has maintained that it will remain independent and has no intention of folding to join Jubilee Party. READ MORE Chepkotit's magical milk in West Pokot Ruto faces uphill task as rivals slice away Rift Valley support Kanu official calls for audit of voters' register Major boost Kanu got a major boost a few weeks ago after former Information and Communications Minister Samuel Poghisio joined it after ditching Jubilee and now hopes to run for the Senatorial seat on its ticket. Speaking in Tangulbei, Baringo County, Lonyangapuo who led a high-powered political delegation for a fundraiser in Tiaty introduced Mr Poghisio, the former Kacheliba MP as his replacement. Poghisio who is the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority chairman, vied for the West Pokot Senate seat in 2013 under United Republican Party but lost to Lonyangapuo. &ldquo;This is the victorious line up, I will trounce Kachapin while our brother Poghisio who has accepted to support us in Kanu is well equipped to take over from me,&rsquo;&rsquo;&rsquo; said Lonyangapuo. Kachapin enjoys support from Members of Parliament and local leaders in the region and is banking on this support and his development track record to retain his seat. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;