The silly season is here; and yes, nothing seems to have changed even for the forthcoming General Election. A few days ago almost out of the blue a few Jubilee MPs announced somewhere in Kiambu that they would support one Eugene Ludovic Wamalwa to be the next governor for Nairobi. The 47-year-old former MP happens to be the current Cabinet Secretary in charge of Water and Irrigation. As if acting on cue, almost immediately, more than 10 MPs and two governors from what used to be Western Province joined the chorus in endorsing Wamalwa for the coveted job in the city. Never mind that Western is so far from Nairobi and these leaders clearly don&rsquo;t vote in the city. Now, let&rsquo;s be clear. Anybody has a right to propose, endorse or even reject any candidate for any post in Kenya. As a matter of fact, it is possible that Wamalwa could be a good governor for Nairobi &ndash; who knows? What is most unsettling however is just how unashamedly the backers and critics of the Wamalwa candidacy have flaunted the tribal card in this somewhat pre-mature jostling for the City. Only last week an analyst believed to be Jubilee-leaning announced on national TV that Wamalwa was the preferred candidate because he would at least split if not entirely &lsquo;run away&rsquo; with the Luhya vote in the city and therefore deny the incumbent Evans Kidero a second term. The sentiments have since been echoed by a number of Jubilee MPs who have declared that Wamalwa will complete the city arithmetic. READ MORE 'Young Turks' of 90's still relevant as youthful leaders fight for space Jubilee merger a new tool for political inclusion Munya: I will defeat Kiraitu next year and face Ruto in 2022 General Election &nbsp;After all the Deputy President declared not too long ago that this time Jubilee will do whatever it takes to ensure Nairobi is in the bag. Wamalwa&rsquo;s critics have also fronted what they believe is the might of the Kikuyu vote in Nairobi and cannot understand how a so-called outsider should be in charge of the city. To be fair, most politicians and parties, including those in CORD play this game of ethnic arithmetic. But for Jubilee the irony of the timing couldn&#39;t be more awkward. Just this past week we saw a big ceremony at State House in which the president announced that at least 12 parties would be merging to form one big party that would end the culture of tribal politics in Kenya. Clearly, the president was not talking about Nairobi politics or may be the politicians here are just not listening to him. That&rsquo;s my take - @YvonneOkwara