Council of Governors (CoG) Chairman Peter Munya (pictured) risk arrest after failing to honour Senate summons to respond to audit queries. The Senate Public Accounts and Investments Committee (PAIC) has written to Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet, asking him to arrest Munya and present him before the committee to respond to queries on the 2013-2014 financial year. This was after the governor, for the third time, ignored committee summons to appear and instead sent a delegation from his office. Angry senators said a &lsquo;decision has been made&rsquo; on the governor. &ldquo;We have made a decision. The law says that appearance before House committee takes precedence, unless there is permission to do otherwise,&rdquo; said committee chair Senator Anyan&rsquo;g Nyong&rsquo;o (Kisumu). Another senator confirmed that the committee would do everything to ensure that Munya responds to the queries. &ldquo;We have instructed the clerks to draft a letter to the IG. The letter will go out tomorrow (today). The governor was summoned, but he defied the summons. He will be brought here by the police to answer to queries raised by the Auditor General,&rdquo; said the senator. WAITED IN VAIN READ MORE PNU chairman in court bid to stop delegates conference Meru county buys rig to sink boreholes in dry regions Bill on party-hopping meant to stifle democracy-Munya Yesterday, committee members waited in vain for Munya whose communication to the committee indicated he was presiding over a CoG meeting. Box loads of documents that had been brought in by county officials as reference material were carted away after the committee declined to give the delegation audience. If the committee implements its decision, it will be the second time it is taking such a step. Last month, the committee issued a warrant of arrest for Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya after he also defied similar summons. Oparanya, however, moved to court and obtained temporary orders stopping the committee from summoning him. In reaching a decision against governor Munya, the committee cited Article 125 of the Constitution, which empowers it to summon witnesses and compel them to give evidence. &ldquo;Either House of Parliament, and any of its committees, has power to summon any person to appear before it for the purpose of giving evidence or providing information. ... A House of Parliament and any of its committees has the same powers as the High Court to enforce the attendance of witnesses and examine them on oath, affirmation or otherwise; to compel the production of documents; and to issue a commission or request to examine witnesses abroad,&rdquo; reads the article. While in the Oparanya case, the committee wanted the governor taken to court, in the current case, it wants the Meru governor hauled before the committee by the police. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;