&nbsp; Several months ago, a patient with fairly advanced pancreatic cancer shared his fears with me. Apart from fears regarding his family, finances and his impending mortality, he was afraid that he might not make it to 2017 &quot;to vote out politicians who have neglected cancer.&quot; Pancreatic cancer, unlike breast or colon cancer, does not have any screening modality, nor does it present clear-cut early symptoms. Majority of pancreatic cancers worldwide are diagnosed at an advanced stage and tend to have poor outcomes as was the case with this gentleman. Politics matter to all of us, including those suffering from cancer. Patients, cancer advocates and healthcare professionals know all too well that allocation of national and county resources follows a political process. READ MORE "Go away, and don't come back": Mum battling breast cancer writes moving letter to the disease Innocent food items in your home that are &lsquo;glowing&rsquo; with radiation Artificial turf linked to cancer That we are already in election mode is not in doubt. What we have not seen are substantive issues on the political agenda of those seeking elective positions at all levels. Putting cancer at the centre of the national political discourse would, therefore, be a good start. This is not just because of the enormous financial burden associated with cancer, but because of the number of deaths, now approaching 100 daily. Kenyans, regardless of party affiliation, would want to see cancer included in the manifestos of all political parties with detailed plans on how to tackle the problem once in power. One of our mistakes as a country is to approach the disease as a purely medical problem while ignoring the role of socio-economic and political dynamics in determining who will live or who will die from cancer. All aspects of cancer control, from tobacco legislation to advertisements of junk food are affected by public policy and legislation. Politicians and government technocrats play a significant role in setting the legislative and policy agenda as well as influencing government spending priorities. A significant investment should also be made in cancer research. Nearly one in every four cancer cases in Kenya and in most of sub-Saharan Africa are caused by infectious agents such as viruses and bacteria, yet there is very little or no research in this area and no designated State funding. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;