Some 12,096 government-sponsored students have been selected to join private universities this month. This is 2,000 students more than the initial 10,000 promised by President Uhuru Kenyatta. This brings to 86,484 the total number of students selected to join public and private universities under government sponsorship. The government will pay fees for all the students selected, on a similar rate with those in public universities &ndash; Sh70,000 per student. Students will only be required to top up Sh16,000 per academic year. Kenya Universities and Colleges Central Placement Service (KUCCPS) Chief Executive Officer John Muraguri said the students should report to their stations. &ldquo;Admissions shall now depend on individual universities. But all students must be in class this September,&rdquo; he said. Data released by KUCCPS shows the private institutions had declared to absorb 27,192 students. A total of 29 private universities opened up their programmes for students to apply. READ MORE Government to pay for 12,000 students to study at private universities within Kenya New varsity payment rates reduced Kenya bans ethnic associations in universities According to the placement list, the Thika-based Mount Kenya University has been allocated 1,580 students, being the highest allocation. Of these, 967 were male students and 613 females. Details also show that MKU attracted the most number of students during applications. A statement from MKU attributed the increasing desire by students to join the institution to a number of reforms undertaken to enhance quality. &ldquo;The university has scaled down part time lecturers and retained them as full time staff, it has reduced the expansion plans, merged some campuses and completely done away with some. MKU also attracted the most research grants,&rdquo; reads the statement. The Catholic University of East Africa (CUEA) scooped the second highest number of students, with some 1,182 placed to pursue various programmes. Of these, 687 are female students and 495 males. The Presbyterian University of East Africa has been allocated 853 students, while Kenya Methodist University got 701. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;