KAKAMEGA: Budalang&rsquo;i MP Ababu Namwamba move to join Labour Party of Kenya (LPK) elicits mixed reaction among top ODM leadership while some welcomed him to work with Cord coalition; others termed the move as inconsequential. It has been three months of waiting for Ababu to unveil LPK. He resigned in July as ODM Secretary General together with Funyula MP Paul Otuoma (vice chairman) and Sirisia MP John Waluke (ODM Chairman Bungoma County). Otuoma has maintained he is still in ODM while Waluke jumped to Jubilee party which was merged recently. At the time of their resignation, the three lawmakers cited being frustrated by ODM leadership and accused the party of trivializing their complaints. Their resignation was heavily criticised by ODM leadership and accused of being Jubilee moles in Cord. A week after their resignations, a series of political rallies was planned by ODM party leader Raila Odinga in Western region to counter their resignation. READ MORE World's tallest teenager reaches record-breaking 7ft 8ins CORD in trouble over primaries as Wetang'ula party gives new demands Raila tells defectors to resign and seek fresh mandate Raila pitched tent in Budalang&rsquo;i and Funyula constituencies for a day during his five day tour of the region. Funyula lawmaker says LPK is in CORD coalition and he was invited to attend its 18th anniversary and rebranding which took place on Thursday in Nairobi. &quot;LPK is a party that has been in existence for years. Attending a function does not mean we have defected. I also attended ANC launch months ago,&#39;&#39; said Otuoma. When reached for a comment, Ababu said he would respond later because he was busy. In a letter seen by Standard, LPK Secretary General Peter Kubebea said the party has completed three month process of rebranding, refreshing and strengthening of its leadership. &quot;LPK will be officially unveiled at a dinner event bringing together leaders and delegates across the country. Labour party is now ready and raring to compete aggressively and effectively on the Kenyan political scene,&#39;&#39; read in part. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;