Follow the Jubilee route. This is the advice Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana is offering CORD leaders Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula. He dismisses political parties in Kenya as a big joke, and thinks the &ldquo;Young Turks&rdquo; raring to run the old guard out of town, will not achieve much. Kibwana, an old stagger in activism once considered a compromise presidential candidate, discusses his idealism in politics, troublesome tenure as Makueni Governor and his hopes for the country. He spoke to The Standard on Sunday Senior writer NZAU MUSAU QUESTION: There is a perception, and it came out during the days of the Commission of Inquiry into the Dissolution of Makueni County, that you are too elitist to appreciate the political realities of this country. What is the situation from your end? ANSWER: Perhaps idealistic, not elitist. In Makueni, my ear and heart are every day on the ground. People know I am a peoples&rsquo; governor. That is why I have survived political hurricanes. However, I hate the politics of cheating people that one is their servant while merely salivating for office and public resources. Q: The gamble on the petition: Why did you take it and were you sure you would come back? READ MORE Joho&rsquo;s rising stature in Raila party stirs debate CORD defectors left hanging as opposition vows to lock them out Uhuru, Raila should put their act together in 2017 A: I saw that a government elected to serve the people was not prioritising service. Even if I was not re-elected the point had already been made that in Kenya, we should abhor impotent or belly politics. After the Makueni &ldquo;shocker&rdquo; many county assemblies became sober. Q: You were at the heart of the second liberation struggle. Six years after promulgation of the new Constitution, what are your thoughts on progress of the new order so far? A: The 2010 Constitution has been the best gift Kenya has given to herself since independence. It has entrenched devolution and the prospect of social-cultural and economic independence and therefore the onset of a middle economy status. However, we must use it to fight negative ethnicity, corruption, youth exclusion and attempts by the political leadership to reverse devolution as happened in 1964. Q. In the 1990s, you were even touted as a possible compromise presidential candidate alongside Willy Mutunga and Mutava Musyimi. What happened to your political star? A: In 1999 after my MP Prof Sumbi died, I was requested to vie for the Makueni parliamentary seat. I declined. My mission then, as of now, was how to be part of midwifing the framework to democratise and humanise Kenya. As a leader of the civil society movement, I participated in nationwide civic education for the new multi-party order. Some of my academic work contains the structure and detail of our current constitution. I followed the draft constitution in the National Assembly when in 2002 I was elected as MP for Makueni. Later, I was advisor to President Mwai Kibaki when the Constitution was being finalised in Naivasha and at the National Assembly. In 2010, I considered my life&rsquo;s work substantially done when as I sat in the background, I saw politicians who had opposed the constitution in the Kanu days, pledge to support it and appear to own it. To be part of Kenya&rsquo;s change process, one does not have to be a president or even a politician. Q: During the Kibaki presidency, you were his advisor on constitutional, parliamentary and youth affairs and joint secretary (with Miguna Miguna) to the Grand Coalition Government secretariat. What big lesson did you learn which can help the main coalitions in the country today? GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;