More leaders from Nyeri have disowned embattled Governor Nderitu Gachagu criticising his style leadership and running of the county&rsquo;s affairs. The leaders asked Nderitu to carry his own cross and defend himself when he faces the Senate today. Nyeri Women Representative Priscilla Nyokabi defended the MCAs move to impeach Mr Gachagua, denying that they had asked for a swimming pool in the 2016/2017 budget, a ground which the Governor used to decline to sign the budget. &ldquo;The MCAs refused to cave in to intimidation and demands by the Gachagua administration to have a new vehicle worth Sh13million in the budget. Gachagua had acquired two vehicles including a Mercedes Benz and a Prado the previous year,&rdquo; said Nyeri Women Representative Priscilla Nyokabi. REJECTED REQUEST She added that the MCAs also rejected a request by the county government to spend Sh75 million for billboards on Gachagua. READ MORE Report shows why governor Gachagua is under siege Leaders tell courts to keep off Governor Gachagua impeachment Residents want Gachagua impeachment blocked According to Mukureini MP Kabando wa Kabando the county declined to hire Early Childhood Development teachers and Polytechnic tutors putting education standards in the county at risk. His Kieni counterpart, Kanini Kega, took issue with the manner the County is managed whenever the governor is sick or away.&rdquo;Instead of the Deputy Governor to run county affairs in his absence, a relative of the governor runs matters here in violation of the law,&rdquo; said Kega. Part of the accusations include the controversial renovations and leasing of a privately owned old office block in Nyeri town, that cost the County government Sh81 million. NO VALUE &ldquo;The old office is just one and a half floors with 11 offices yet according to experts the county could have built a three-floor building with 42 offices at a cost of just Sh 76 million,&rdquo; said Nyokabi. Another issue that is being raised by the leaders is the construction of a 3km path at a cost of Sh48 million to Kamakwa neighbourhood. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;