Salary negotiations between the&nbsp;government and teachers resume today&nbsp;with unions saying they expect a counter offer to their 300 percent pay&nbsp;rise demand. Representatives of Kenya National&nbsp;Union of Teachers (Knut) said yesterday&nbsp;they were ready for negotiations with the Teachers Service Commission. But they warned they would not&nbsp;participate in protracted acrimonious&nbsp;talks.Teachers want the Government to present its offer to counter their 300 per cent pay-rise demand when salary talks resume today. Kenya National Union of Teachers (KNUT) yesterday asked the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) to place &quot;whatever they have&quot; on the table for talks to start. KNUT&nbsp;Secretary General Wilson Sossion said teachers wish for &quot;peaceful talks devoid of acrimony&quot; when they attend the negotiations today. &quot;We hope that in the spirit of Labour Relations Act, the TSC will make available all the necessary information to facilitate Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) talks,&quot; said Mr Sossion. READ MORE Support TSC's efforts to avert industrial action Unionists snub TSC training on pay talks TSC maintains role of recruiting and transferring head teachers Section 57 (2) of the Labour Relations Act says: &quot;For the purpose of conducting negotiations, an employer shall disclose to a trade union all relevant information that will allow the trade union to effectively negotiate on behalf of employees.&quot; TSC meets Knut officials today, a week after the employer held separate meetings with both unions to lay ground rules for the talks. Details from the TSC on a possible counter-offer were scanty. &quot;We have dedicated all our energies on the talks and we hope if all goes well, and if the Government is serious, we should be able to sign a CBA by October 30,&quot; said Sossion. A meeting between Knut and TSC last week formed a 10-member negotiation committee, which will meet today. Sossion is leading the Knut negotiation team that includes National Chairman Mudzo Nzili, National Treasurer John Matiang&#39;i, Deputy Secretary General Hesbon Otieno and Deputy National Treasurer Ndiku Muo. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;