There is a sense in which public procurement is at the heart of the majority of conversations about corruption in public fora in Kenya especially since the introduction of devolution with the new constitution in 2010. And so you will forgive me if, with all due respect, I describe the nexus of public procurement and governance as a disaster in the management of public affairs in Kenya that has cost us much in treasure and national standing. By the late 1980s, when public land that could be dished out as a patronage resource started to slow down - with Agricultural Development Corporation, Kenya Railways and other such lands running out &ndash; the stealing from parastatals via the abuse of procurement was all the rage. Through the 1960s and 1970s and into the 21st century, however, procurement in the security sector was a goldmine for those involved, whether they were politicians, civil servants, service and goods providers. And it did not matter whether you were selling jets to the air force or eggs and socks to the police. Trade mispricing costs Africa US$38 billion per year, according to the Africa Progress Panel. The United Nations Economic Commission for Africa estimated that over the last 40 years, US$1 trillion was lost by African countries in savings transferred to the developed world. READ MORE Kenyan firm buys Tanzanian drugs manufacturer Fitness Challenge Kenya back this Saturday at Nairobi Arboretum Kenya knocks off 100m units of costly power in eight months Today, the Kenya government is embarked on the largest debt-fuelled procurement binge in the country&rsquo;s history. Whether you are talking about projects like the Standard Gauge Railway, the titillating procurements of the National Youth Service and the assortment of other high profile legacy public works, projects underway since around 2008. Indeed, public procurement has too often become one of the most scandalous elements of public service. There would seem to be a widespread perception that the majority of public procurement is particularly prone to corruption of the kind that ultimately costs citizens dearly for goods and services that can often be of substandard quality or not arrive at all &ndash; &lsquo;air supply&rsquo; as the Ugandans call it &ndash; you get paid for supplying air. Over the past seven years, rapidly intensifying over the last four years, one of the most extraordinary achievements in the conduct of public affairs is the normalisation of corruption via conflict of interest. As a result, Kenya is a country where one becomes a public servant expressly to become rich. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 4 5 Next &raquo;