Kenya Airways paid consultancy firm McKinsey and Company a staggering Sh2.3 billion in six months at a time the airline is struggling to remain afloat. Invoices seen by The Standard on Saturday show that the consultancy firm, which is helping the airline implement its restructuring plan, has been drawing about Sh43 million every week since March this year as weekly fees. This has emerged as one of the most expensive consultancy bills in Kenya&#39;s corporate scene, even as management continues to defend itself against concerns that it may not be getting value for money. The Standard on Saturday shared with the airline&rsquo;s boss a copy of the document detailing the invoices by the consultancy firm in an effort to establish if the money it was being paid was in line with industry standards. Mbuvi Ngunze, Kenya Airways Chief Executive Officer declined to comment on the specifics of the contracts because of privacy clauses, but maintained the company had been awarded the contract competitively. &ldquo;The contract was competitively done and its implementation ioverseen by the board. I cannot speak on the specifics. They bid for the tender and I cannot disclose the details,&rdquo; Ngunze said. READ MORE KQ ropes in Michael Joseph in turnaround strategy KQ in talks with four investors on stake sale Kenya Airways in talks with 3-4 parties on stake sale However, insiders say the firm, which was hired early this year, bills for its services in dollars and the weekly fees are hurting KQ&#39;s cash flow given that it is currently operating largely on debt. In addition to the weekly fees, the company also bills the airline for various services, among them performance and professional fees. For instance, an invoice number 127CM dated September 19, 2016 of Sh43.5 million ($435,000) was received by the airline for &ldquo;implementation stage weekly fees&rdquo;. Similar invoices were entered in March, April, May through to September. On August 14, the firm invoiced a Sh46.4million for professional fees. Similar fees were entered for December, January and February. There have been about 40 different invoices entered in the period. The single-largest invoice was in July and September when it billed Sh290 million and Sh600 million as performance-based fees. McKinsey was brought in after the airline made cumulative losses of Sh52 billion in the last two years, throwing the national carrier into its biggest financial distress in the last decade. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 4 Next &raquo;