KENYA: The man who slaughtered his two children also drank their blood, it has since emerged. Bugesi Okero, who was later killed by a mob, has shocked his family and fellow villagers in Nyamira County. A cup which he used to drink the blood, a spoon and salt shaker stained with the blood and a kitchen knife were discovered in the house which the deceased father lived with his children. On Thursday, when the incident happened, police only discovered the knife. Okero&rsquo;s wife had since deserted the home following what the police, neighbours and close relatives said were constant family feuds that often resulted into fist fights. STRANGE TEACHINGS Since the tragedy, there has emerged various theories explaining the bizarre happening - all of which point to involvement in a cult. Yesterday, his father in-law, Alfred Mwencha, said the 25-year-old man who was lynched on Thursday, had indicated he was introduced to a church offering strange teachings to followers. READ MORE Kisii man lynched for killing his two children Gangsters kill six watchmen in night raid on two markets Family accuses police of torturing kin to death &ldquo;He said a close family member introduced him to the church; but he only went there twice before moving out in protest,&rdquo; Mr Mwencha said, adding that in the six years his daughter&nbsp;(estranged wife to the killer) was married to Okero, she never knew peace of mind. He adds: &ldquo;One day she came to us before sunrise claiming her husband wanted to kill her in the dark of the night. However, we dismissed her and urged her to be tolerant.&rdquo; An aunt to the killer also said her nephew was disturbed by what he claimed to be black magic in his home. According to Peris Tai, Okero had told her that he was having trouble with a rat his wife was taming. &ldquo;He would tell us how he was being haunted by the strange animal, which he says he provided for more than the children he killed,&rdquo; she said. It is interesting that both sides of the family concur that the father of two had hinted that he was planning to kill himself. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;