&nbsp; kenya airways flights at the JKIA in Nairobi. Photo WILLIS AWANDU Kenya Airways may have lost in excess of Sh60 billion in a span of four years due to under-priced tickets, an audit report presented to the airline&rsquo;s top management shows. A draft report of review on ticket inventory by audit firm, Deloitte Consulting Limited, found that Sh61.1 billion was lost after seven million tickets were issued below seat cost between 2012 and 2015. The top 10 routes of the airline accounted for Sh12 billion worth of the tickets issued below the seat cost, while the top 10 travel agents doing business with the troubled airline accounted for Sh3 billion of the losses. The seven million tickets issued below seat cost equates to approximately 50 per cent of all tickets sold. The average below seat cost price per ticket stood at Sh8,600. Put differently, half of people who flew KQ in the four year period paid an average of Sh8,600. The Amsterdam-Nairobi route accounted for most value of the tickets (77,797) issued below seat cost at Sh1.7 billion. Mumbai-Nairobi route accounted for most of the under-priced tickets (82,837), but the losses were put at Sh1 billion. READ MORE How loss-making KQ paid firm Sh2.3b in six months Safari Sevens got big payments without contract-Audit KQ ropes in Michael Joseph in turnaround strategy The investigators obtained the minimum seat cost data from KQ finance team. The minimum seat cost is usually arrived at by adding the fleet costs, direct operating costs and operating overheads. It is the bare minimum at which an airline can sell a ticket without making a loss. The issue of fares below seat cost was presented to KQ board meeting held on September 10, 2015. The board then resolved to request a forensic audit to establish the true nature of the facts related to ticket cost. &ldquo;Our investigation did not yield any palpable evidence of any irregularities perpetrated by KQ staff, travel agents or related third parties relating to tickets sold at low fares. However, what is apparent other than non-compliance with the Pricing Policy is failure by management to agree on the most competitive price based on the actual seat cost and other market conditions such as competitors&rsquo; activity,&rdquo; the report says. LOW YIELDING CLASSES The investigators established that 60 to 70 per cent of all tickets in European routes such as London, Paris and Amsterdam were sold in low yielding classes, namely &ldquo;T&rdquo; and &ldquo;N-Entry&rdquo; price and &ldquo;R-promo&rdquo; price tickets. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;