Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga has been put to task over the implementation of a Sh167 million Early Childhood Development (ECD) classrooms project. The governor was yesterday hard pressed to explain to the Senate Public Accounts and Investments Committee why procurement rules were flouted during the implementation of the project. Auditor General Edward Ouko in his 2013/2014 report questioned why the county government did not put out a tender advertisement for the&nbsp; project. The Senate watchdog also questioned why the administration did not constitute a technical and financial evaluation committee and an inspection and acceptance committee. The Auditor General had further established that a contractor, who landed a Sh2.959 million tender to construct an ECD block at Nguya Primary School, did not appear as a bidder in the tender opening minutes. Paid in advance READ MORE Nyeri County officials spend second night in jail More Rift Valley women set sights on elective posts for 2017 polls Kenyan politicians in race to control funds Other two contractors who clinched tenders to construct classrooms for ECD learners at Awelo and Sihayi Primary Schools, the Auditor General noted, were paid a sum of Sh2.9 million in advance. But Governor Rasanga yesterday defended himself from any wrongdoing, saying some of the procurement flaws occurred during his first year in office, &ldquo;when there were no proper structures in place&rdquo;. &ldquo;It should be noted that the period of audit was during the formative stages of the county government operations. Consequently, relevant structures for project management were yet to be constituted,&rdquo; he said. The governor maintained that all the 68 ECD classrooms under the projects did not cost more than Sh2.5 million and, therefore, fell under the threshold of local tender, and did not require national advertising, as per the law. &ldquo;The contractor who did work at Nguya Primary School was a bidder. The other two contractors were paid Sh1.2 million and Sh1.6 million in advance. But the payments were made against actual interim payments based on work completed at that time,&rdquo; said Mr Rasanga. Senators Boni Khalwale (Kakamega) and Martha Wangari (nominated), took issue with the cost of the classrooms, noting that spending over Sh2 million on each classroom block was too exorbitant. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;