Learning starts today at the newly formed Tom Mboya University College. The college, named after trade unionist Tom Mboya, commences classes with a student population of 263. The institution&#39;s principal, Charles Ochola, said of the registered students, 193 students are Government-sponsored through the Higher Education Loans Board (Helb), and remaining, 70, are self-sponsored. &quot;We are proud that we have got students who are going to pioneer this college. The only task we have is to work hard in our academic works to uplift the reputation of this university,&quot; said Prof Ochola. The university will still operate as a constituent college of Maseno University. County leaders led by Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata, Education and ICT Executive Naphtali Mattah and his chief officer, Eunice Owino, said the university was a source of fortune for the county. Mr Orata said Maseno University will manage the institution until it is able to operate on its own as a fully-fledged university, adding that the county government will continue to support it until it can fully stand on its own. &quot;Education is the key to every aspect of development in the society. I am happy that our efforts to have a university in Homa Bay have succeeded,&quot; said Orata. He expressed optimism that the university will enhance the county&#39;s economic prosperity. &quot;My appeal to Homa Bay residents is to support this university and view it as an institution, which will transform economic growth of this county,&quot; said Orata. Mr Mattah said the university will help reduce financial flights to other counties. &quot;We have had many people going to Uganda but with this, our children are going to learn here. All universities were started like this hence nobody should be worried,&quot; said Mattah. He assured the students of plans to establish internet hotspots within the institution to enhance learning and promote innovation among students. Ms Owino expressed concern over shortage of higher institutions of learning in the county, a situation she said, had deterred many from acquiring higher education. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;