The battle for the gubernatorial has seen key aspirants seeking to forge a common front against Governor Alfred Mutua. It remains to be seen whether Dr Mutua, who has rebelled against Wiper party and its leadership and launched&nbsp; Maendeleo Chap Chap and Unity movement, will withstand the brewing political storm. It also remains to be seen whether his opponents will pass the test of unity, which has been billed as the only way to send home the governor, who has on severally earned the tag of &ldquo;best performing governor in the country&rdquo;. Former Kathiani MP Wavinya Ndeti, Deputy Governor Bernard Kiala and an East African Legislative Assembly (EALA) MP Peter Mathuki have all declared interest in becoming the next governor of Ukambani&rsquo;s richest county. Ms Wavinya, the Chama Cha Uzalendo (CCU) party leader, was Mutua&rsquo;s fiercest challenger in the 2013 General Election. She later unsuccessfully petitioned Mutua&rsquo;s election on claims that the governor was &ldquo;unlawfully elected&rdquo;. Mr Kiala, who was Mutua&rsquo;s running mate and subsequently his deputy governor, fell out with his boss after the governor accused him of holding clandestine meetings with MCAs in a bid to oust him. Kiala was later impeached by the County Assembly but got a lifeline after the Senate overturned his impeachment. READ MORE Police arrest 120 suspects over killing of six guards across Machakos County Tough league race Mutua softens stand and calls for meeting with striking doctors Mr Mathuki, who was nominated by Wiper party to EALA, has been actively involved in the party&rsquo;s affairs, and is currently Wiper&rsquo;s deputy secretary general. The three aspirants have rolled up their sleeves and declared a political war against Mutua, who won the 2013 election by a landslide. Yesterday, both Wavinya and Kiala maintained they were in the race and indicated that they were not opposed to the idea of working together. FORGE UNITY &ldquo;I am firmly in the race for Machakos governor but that fact does not mean I should play in isolation. For me, the common goal would be to forge unity for Machakos residents and by extension the Kamba community,&rdquo; said Wavinya. Asked if she would join forces with Kiala in order to beat Mutua as widely speculated, she said: &ldquo;It is not about Wavinya or Kiala, but about our political parties. Kiala is in Wiper and I am in CCU. I would not be opposed to inter-parties consultations towards that end,&rdquo; said the former Youth Affairs Assistant Minister. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;