NAIROBI: There was recently an outcry over one public university&rsquo;s requirement that all new students buy laptops from it. This was an example of a captive market. There are other examples; the Government at one time required that seminars and workshops for its employees only be held in Government-owned facilities. This ensured they have a ready market. A slowdown in tourism, however, made this untenable. Schools are also captured by uniform suppliers. They direct you to buy uniforms from certain suppliers. This often leads to overpricing and low quality. Ever wondered why school uniforms are so expensive? One way to reduce the cost of education is to abolish uniforms. While we are great at copying Western political systems, why not simple things like students wearing casual clothes to school? Who does not know that we are not equal? A firm might require that employees eat at the firm cafeteria, use company transport and so on. If the Government makes cars, it may require its departments to buy cars from its manufacturers. Some unscrupulous employers require their employees to buy products from designated shops or outlets. This goes further. A foreign country giving you a scholarship may require you to use its airlines. READ MORE New app to save Kenya's Sh90b elephant eco-tourism sector Italian tourist trampled to death by elephant in Tsavo park Tracing the origin of man Part 2 Captive markets are very tempting; they assure you of a ready market. One of our public universities has about 80,000 students. If they all buy laptops, food from the cafeteria, books, and other products and services from the institution, that&rsquo;s good business. That is why in some countries you hear of university towns. They go to sleep when the university closes. Many towns in Kenya do not have a population of 80,000. Even politics at one time had a captive market &ndash; we were all one-time members of Kanu. We paid yearly subscriptions, which gave the party lots of money. One wishes they had invested it. KBC once had a captive market; we had to watch the only TV and radio station in Kenya that closed at midnight to open at 5am. Regulatory approval Security also drives captive markets. For example, most military forces only procure from certain markets, mostly domestic, because they do not want their secrets leaked to their competitors. Can you imagine the US giving a foreign firm the contract to build stealth bombers? GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;