ASIA: The standard policy prescription for Washington&rsquo;s dealings with Russia is situational: Agree to disagree on certain issues, but try to find areas where cooperation is possible. The areas where the two nations can cooperate, however, have drastically diminished over the past week. The United States on October 7 demanded a war crimes investigation of Russia for its air strikes in Syria, particularly in Aleppo. Washington also formally accused Russian government-sponsored hackers of direct interference in the U.S. presidential election. In response, Russian President Vladimir Putin not only withdrew from a 2000 plutonium-disposal treaty, he essentially presented Washington with a bill that must be paid before he would resume cooperation under its terms. &nbsp; Putin delivered the demand in his proposed legislation to suspend the treaty, which included a detailed list of Washington&rsquo;s unfriendly actions against Russia. He specifically called for the repeal of the Magnitsky list, which punishes specific Russian officials for the death of lawyer Sergei Magnitsky while in custody, and the entire U.S sanctions program.&nbsp; Putin even went one step further: He demanded compensation for unquantified losses stemming from current U.S. sanctions, as well as from the food counter-sanctions that Russia imposed on itself. READ MORE Pence says evidence points to Russia in email hacks Exclusive: Obama, aides expected to weigh Syria military options China confirms Duterte visit amid strained U.S.-Philippine ties One logical conclusion is that the two countries will not be engaging in meaningful dialogue anytime soon. Putin has also now answered the perennial question of whether sanctions are working: They are. And Moscow is apparently keeping a running tab of all the damages. Though the Kremlin shows no sign of backing down, it remains unclear whether Russia&rsquo;s struggling economy can support its global aspirations. Moscow&rsquo;s 2014 invasion of eastern Ukraine sparked a major recession. Economists have been looking in vain for signs of recovery ever since. The low price of oil is often portrayed as the primary culprit for Russia&rsquo;s economic decline. But the Russian Federal Anti-Monopoly Service recently released a stunning figure that highlights the country&rsquo;s economic predicament. The state&rsquo;s share of the economy &ndash; including state-owned companies &ndash; has reached a staggering 70 percent. It has essentially doubled over the past decade. &nbsp; The anti-monopoly service characterized the Russian economy as &ldquo;capitalism of state monopolies,&rdquo; which means there is no genuine competition. As if to confirm this diagnosis, the Russian state-owned oil giant Rosneft has now emerged as the winner in the less-than-transparent privatization of the Bashneft oil company, a recently re-privatized state company. Only in Russia could a transaction between two state-controlled entities be dubbed a privatization. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;