Bungoma Governor Ken Lusaka has defended legalising selling and consumption of local brew Busaa in the county. Speaking in his office on Thursday, Lusaka differed with Interior and coordination of national government PS Karanja Kibicho who had earlier in the week faulted passage of the by-laws. &quot;We must change certain approaches when doing things, law is not static, busaa was legalized after a tough consultative forums, busaa has been there since time immemorial and we should check its standards and it be taken through the legal processes,&quot; said Lusaka. Kibicho had said it was wrong for the devolved unit to contradict the Kenyan constitution which had banned busaa. &quot;We understand that Bungoma has created a law allowing the sale and drinking of busaa. That is not acceptable. No county can create a law that can contradict the laws of the country,&quot; he said. However, Lusaka told off Kibicho asking him to concentrate on his job instead of faulting counties on some laws passed. READ MORE Interior PS faults Bungoma County for legalising busaa trade Concern as leaders of dissolved parties miss Jubilee seats Kenya denies abuse of refugees in push to close Somali camp &quot;Countries like Uganda has Waragi while Tanzania has Konyagi why should we ban our own Busaa? We have to legalise the sell and consumption of local brews, why should we be static, let&#39;s also allow our people take busaa provided It&rsquo;s taken in a good environment and at stipulated,&quot; he said. Lusaka asked the PS to take time and familiarize himself with Bungoma County government by-laws. The PS had recommended that the Act passed by the County Government be nullified as it was an illegality, insisting that the national government would not relent in the fight against illicit brews. &quot;Busaa must first pass the standard specifications set out. It must meet health, preservation and manufacturing standards and be certified by KEBS without which it will remain illegal,&quot; he said. The Bungoma County Alcoholic Drinks Control Act, 2015, was officially launched by Governor, Ken Lusaka, after being gazetted. Lusaka said the law will regulate production, sale, distribution and consumption of traditional brews and other alcoholic beverages. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;