Two security guards were Saturday night killed in an attack on a mall where property valued at millions of shillings were stolen in Eastleigh, Nairobi.&nbsp;Two others are missing after the attack at Moyale Mall in Eastleigh, police said. The deceased were slaughtered after they resisted a robbery that seems to have been planned and executed well. Their throats were slit in a macabre manner and a pool of blood caked around their bodies when police arrived there. Those missing were manning the ground floor of the mall while the deceased were on the second floor when a gang of unknown number struck Saturday at about midnight. It is not clear why the two are missing but police say they suspect they may have either been abducted by the gang or were part of the attack. Nairobi police boss Japheth Koome said they are investigating the whereabouts of the two missing guards who were on duty. He said the guards will offer an explanation on how many the attackers were and if they used a car to cart away the goods they stole. &quot;After they killed the two, the broke into at least nine shops and stole property but we are investigating and hope to get the assailants,&quot; said Koome. The bodies of the men were moved to the mortuary. Police say they were informed of the incident long after it had happened and the gang escaped with the goods. Such attacks had been rampant last year before various measures were put in place to check them. They included posting police officers to a new post in the area and enhanced patrols. Then, the burglars targeted gold chains and bars, cash and other valuables. They killed guards who resisted their moves. It was established some policemen were in the group of the attackers and they were arrested and charged in court. READ MORE Two burnt to death in night fire in Embu Granny, 85 brutally raped, assaulted and left for dead in Kisumu Tycoon's son tortured to death by gangsters in Nairobi And police are investigating the stabbing to death of a 25 year old woman along Thika Road in a robbery. Tabitha Kirogo was stabbed by a man who had tried to wrestle her to the ground as she waited to catch a public service vehicle to her Thindigwa home. Her mother Lucy said they learnt of the death from police who were called to the scene long after the attack had happened. Tabitha worked for a holiday home in the city and police say the gang grabbed unknown amount of cash and valuables from her. A hunt on the attackers is going on.