Amani National Congress party leader Musalia Mudavadi has ruled out the possibility of re-uniting with Deputy President William Ruto. Mudavadi said his focus is State House and Ruto&rsquo;s tactical reproach to distract his presidential ambitions will not work. Speaking during a fund-raiser at Malinda Secondary School on Friday, Ruto said Mudavadi should exploit the neighbourliness between Luhya and Kalenjin communities to support him as he is already &lsquo;near power&rsquo;. But Mudavadi responded: &ldquo;Ruto&rsquo;s statement is in bad taste, mischievous and condescending. I am serious about running for presidency in 2017 and Ruto knows it. If he is a trustworthy neighbour, let him show his generosity by supporting me first.&rdquo; &ldquo;My goal is to remove you (Ruto) from power. That should be known widely. I want to move forward not backward.&rdquo; Mudavadi was speaking yesterday at Lusengeli Secondary School during the requiem mass for Christine Eboso, wife of lawyer Bernard Eboso, which was also attended by Vihiga Governor Moses Akaranga. The former deputy premier said he cannot engage with a government that does care about its people. &ldquo;The President has ruled out that he does not care about the common mwananchi who can go on salivating while he eats meat. So how can I want to associate with such people?&rdquo; he said. READ MORE DP William Ruto gives Sh18 million record to six schools in two days Apologise now or else..., DP Ruto tells activist DP Ruto cites development record to woo US investors Ruto has also been quoted as vsaying that during their days in ODM with Mudavadi, the two worked well together and so if they re-unite to further their ambitions for presidency together, they will get it. But Mudavadi recalled that in 2012, Ruto and President Uhuru Kenyatta betrayed his trust. &ldquo;Ruto has never said &lsquo;thank you&rsquo; for the mandazi he ate in my house on that evening when they came and begged me to sign a pact with them that would have made me to run for presidency with their support, only for them to start speaking a completely different language,&rdquo; Mudavadi said.