Wiper Democratic Movement leader Kalonzo Musyoka is headed for the Coast, just days after ODM leader Raila Odinga wound up his tour of the region. Wiper officials said Monday that Kalonzo would concentrate his campaigns in Mombasa County as his party seeks to wrest the governorship from Orange Democratic Movement&#39;s Hassan Joho in next year&#39;s polls, among other seats. The Orange party dominates the Mombasa County Assembly after winning all the ward seats in the 2013 elections. Wiper has two members of the National Assembly in Jomvu and Nyali constituencies. Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar also belongs to Wiper. Mr Omar will be seeking to dislodge Governor Joho. CORD affiliate, Ford Kenya, which has no seats in Mombasa, has been trying to get a slice of the crucial swing vote at the Coast. Ford Kenya&#39;s sole MP, Khatib Mwashetani of Lunga Lunga in Kwale County, defected to Jubilee Party early this month. On Saturday, Ford Kenya Senator Boni Khalwale, who is also Ford Kenya&#39;s deputy party leader, met party delegates in Mombasa and paraded the party&#39;s senatorial candidate, Yassir Bajaber. He asked Wiper and ODM to support Mr Bajaber in exchange for Ford Kenya&#39;s support in the race for governor. READ MORE D-day for defectors as Raila ultimatum lapses Kick IEBC commissioners out now, demands Raila Raila party takes search for votes to Ruto&rsquo;s political backyard Siaya Senator James Orengo and a host of ODM MPs including Suna East MP Junet Mohammed were also in Mombasa on Saturday to campaign for Joho and Raila. Briefing journalists on Kalonzo&#39;s two-day tour at Royal Court Hotel after meeting delegates from all six constituencies in Mombasa Monday, Omar, who is the Wiper secretary general, said the party leader would&nbsp; launch the campaign that would see Wiper take the governor&#39;s seat. &quot;Our objective is to see a Wiper governor take over Mombasa after the August 2017 election. You can take this to the bank,&quot; Omar said, adding that Wiper was determined to take all elective positions in the county. Omar said Kalonzo would campaign in all constituencies on Saturday and address a political rally at the historic Tononoka grounds on Sunday. &quot;We will mobilise thousands of supporters and demonstrate that we&#39;re prepared to take over the entire leadership of the county. Wiper has already won key seats in the county; we are ready to sweep the board.&quot; The senator assured aspirants that elective positions were open to all members and that the party would conduct free and fair nominations. He added that Kalonzo was coming to articulate the party&#39;s policies and position the party to win more political seats in the next elections. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;