One year ago, leaders of 193 countries came together to commit to ending poverty, combating climate change and fighting injustice. They agreed on a plan for the future of the world and its people. The plan - the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development - offers a better future for billions of people around the world and for our planet as a whole. Turning its 17 Sustainable Development Goals into reality before the 2030 target date will be one of the most ambitious undertakings the global community has ever taken. But I am confident that if people are at the centre of all actions, and if the commitment of stakeholders is maintained and the spirit of partnership prevails, there will be no shortage of success in the next 14 years. The goals are underpinned by four powerful principles. First, they are connected and indivisible, linking development, human rights, peace and security. Second, they are universal. They apply to every person everywhere. Third, they are to be implemented through inclusive participation of all of society. And fourth, as they are implemented no one should be left behind. The SDGs have created a common purpose for the well-being of coming generations and for a planet that is fit for the future. This is why we have seen a fast, strong and even urgent shift from all sectors toward more sustainable practices and policies. READ MORE Nipping the causes of conflict in the bud Voi River is on its deathbed, environment experts warn EU&rsquo;s action on global climate agenda in Kenya In this first year anniversary - &rdquo;SDG Year 1&rdquo; - more than 50 governments, businesses, scientists and civil society organisations have stepped up their efforts to make the SDGs a central framework for their policies and actions, and have increased their focus and investment on data collection and analysis to guide decisions and leave no one behind. At the local level, hundreds of cities and municipalities are adopting their own plans to achieve the goals. And thousands of communities from different sectors of society have accelerated actions under the SDG banner. All these steps have built momentum to limiting climate change, advancing gender equality, mitigating natural disasters, addressing mass migration and reducing inequality. This past July, 22 governments presented their SDG plans to the United Nations. They showed how they have made the SDGs a central framework for national development. They help ensure that actions are aligned, programmes work in synergy and that finance is used as efficiently as possible. This means that development co-operation will be aligned with the SDGs. The momentum behind the Paris Agreement on Climate Change is also accelerating and so far governments of 27 nations have ratified the agreement - including the world&rsquo;s largest emitters of greenhouses gases, China and the United States. Other sectors are building momentum too. There has been noticeable transformation in how businesses are done with greater focus on social, economic and environmental dimensions of development. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;