NAIROBI: Jubilee and CORD leaders have differed over the defections by some Opposition governors and MPs to Jubilee Party. Even as Jubilee insisted the defections have dealt a blow to the Opposition&rsquo;s chances in the next General Election, CORD argued that the shift in political allegiances was &lsquo;inconsequential&rsquo; and unlikely to have any impact on its future political prospects. National Assembly Leader of Majority Aden Duale (Garissa Town) said the defections and the dismissive reaction from the Opposition was evidence that its leaders had not learned anything from the previous elections. &ldquo;CORD has not learned from history. When Deputy President William Ruto led a walk-out from the Opposition in 2010, they said the defections were inconsequential but it cost them the elections in 2013. Watch this space. This time round, the defections will cost them even the seat of Leader of Opposition,&rdquo; claimed Mr Duale. The MP argued that more Opposition members will cross the floor in the coming days. &ldquo;The Opposition numbers will be depleted by more than 50 per cent. Leaders are elected by the people, and it is the same people that will follow them out of the parties,&rdquo; he said, dismissing suggestions that the defectors were not popular. READ MORE Jubilee will face bruising battle, Isaac Ruto promises Political parties' extravaganza in bad faith Song, dance and hugs as merger baby is born to Jubilee Party But CORD co-principal Kalonzo Musyoka argued that those who decamped had written their own political obituaries. Mr Kalonzo, whose Wiper party lost several MPs, dared the defectors to resign and seek fresh mandate through the Jubilee Party. &ldquo;What I can tell those from Wiper is that they are politically finished, because, they moved alone and people are waiting to mock them. I ask them to be honourable and resign, as it would be dishonest if they continue to serve and earn a salary when they have cheated their voters,&rdquo; charged Kalonzo. fresh mandate He added: &ldquo;Let Jubilee be honest and ask the defectors to seek fresh mandate. When Raila moved to National Development Party, he resigned and sought fresh mandate. Let them follow suit, they will know that theirs was an attempt to tilt public perception and a cheap political public relation exercise.&rdquo; Senate Minority Leader Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula told supporters in Kakamega that Jubilee had deceived the community for long and should be ignored. &ldquo;Jubilee has done no development in this region. Their work is to compromise our leaders instead of developing the region. We should ignore them and vote for real change, which I am committed to doing,&rdquo; Mr Wetang&rsquo;ula said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;