Top ODM party officials, strategists, activists and business allies will hold a retreat in Germany to analyse the latest political happenings in the country. According to sources, among the issues to be discussed are Jubilee Party&#39;s game plan and the tricky balancing act of picking CORD presidential flag bearer. The Standard yesterday established that 45 selected political leaders, governors, party branch officials and business elites drawn from all the 47 counties will be in Germany, and will be joined on Friday by party leader Raila Odinga. Raila could not travel with the officials as he is attending former Cabinet Minister William ole Ntimama&#39;s burial today. Sources involved in organising the trip&#39;s logistics said besides attending a series of business and investment meetings, the ODM team will hold high level political meetings to strategise for next year&#39;s elections. Raila will also use the trip to meet Kenyans living in Germany, and his overseas political advisers. He will also explore possible fundraising avenues in Germany, where he attended college. READ MORE Raila: Table TJRC report to honour Ntimama's memory Raila&rsquo;s right hand man&rsquo;s narrow escape in Nyanza violence Maasai elders slaughter special bull ahead of Ntimama's burial &quot;The leaders will attend a five-day entrepreneurial trip at Darmstadt City in Germany to explore various investment pairing opportunities viable for Kenyans,&quot; said the source. Darmstadt is at the heart of Europe&#39;s financial base, where the delegates are also expected to meet top scholars to discuss the effects of Eurobond in the Kenya&#39;s economy, said the source. Among the delegation is former Kisumu Town West MP Ken Nyagudi who is seeking a comeback to the political limelight. Rev Nyagudi said they were travelling to Europe on the invite of Siemens, one of the leading mobile telephone companies. &quot;We will be exploring possible technology transfer to benefit our people,&quot; said Nyagudi, adding &quot;This is why governors and several business elites are in the trip.&quot; The delegation also expects to meet with investors from John Deer Company, which manufactures agricultural, construction, and forestry machinery and diesel engines. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;