CORD chief Raila Odinga Thursday suffered a blow after three leaders from Turkana County defected to Jubilee. Turkana Senator John Munyes, the Ford Kenya national chairman, led MPs Nicholas Ngikor (Turkana East) also the county Ford Kenya chairman, and his Loima counterpart Protus Akuja of ODM, in announcing their defection. Mr Munyes, who spoke during the New Ford Kenya delegates meeting at the Bomas of Kenya in Nairobi, said he was compelled to make the move by the new wave of change which was sweeping across the country. &quot;I have no otherwise but to say goodbye to them (Opposition). Jubilee seems to be the party that will bring the desired developments in Kenya,&quot; said the Senator, who now joins a long list of politicians that have decamped to the yet-to-be-launched Jubilee Party. &quot;Most of the leaders from the North Rift region are in Jubilee, the party will transform Kenya and make the next government. We do not want to be left behind,&quot; added Munyes, who is eyeing the governor&#39;s seat. Bungoma Governor Ken Lusaka, who led New Ford Kenya delegates in the dissolution of the political outfit, lauded the three for making the bold move, before officially receiving them in Jubilee Party. &quot;As we close shop, we do not do this as a sign of weakness. It is not a function of desperation. It is an act of patriotic courage,&quot; Mr Lusaka said. READ MORE I will be on ballot, Raila assures supporters CORD unveils branded choppers to be used for campaigns ODM to use 823 branded vehicles during extravaganza He continued: &quot;We have not been coerced. We have not been compromised. Those who have attempted to define our cause as &#39;tumbocracy&#39; must be reminded of history. That the founders of our nation and apostles of our belief in democracy moved from small entities to bigger ones.&quot; He pointed out that veteran politician, the late Masinde Muliro, moved from Kadu to Kanu, while the late Wamalwa Kijana had to reach out to Charity Ngilu and Mwai Kibaki to actualise the second liberation dream. &quot;The idea of establishing ideologically-based political parties will give Kenya the desired renaissance of valuing bigger things, and not focusing on minor, negative things of ethnicity,&quot; he explained. The meeting that was attended by over 15 MPs at one time turned into a platform to endorse the gubernatorial bid of Water Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa, with the lawmakers urging him not to shelve his ambition.