Governor Alfred Mutua has now extended an olive branch to striking doctors across all public hospitals in the county. This comes two days after talks with the health professionals on how to end the crisis collapsed. Dr Mutua appeared to soften his stance after he offered to have &#39;structured dialogue&#39; with the doctors, who have paralysed healthcare services in hospitals for the past two weeks. The striking doctors claim the governor has been intimidating and threatening them while at work, and had also left the medics at the mercy of county officials who have no understanding on how healthcare institutions operate. &quot;Earlier, the doctors had presented three petitions to the governor detailing issues of hostile work environment, political interference and gross labour malpractices,&quot; reads a statement released by the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Union (KMPDU) Secretary General Ouma Olunga. &quot;While it is not lost on KPMDU that harassment is ongoing countrywide in nearly all the 47 counties, Machakos County experiences the most hostile work environment characterised by personalised threats to hardworking doctors,&quot; the statement further reads. READ MORE Resume duty or face disciplinary action-Doctors warned On Saturday, a meeting convened by the governor at his office with representatives of the doctors failed to yield fruits after the medics staged a walk-out on Mutua, accusing him of being insincere with the negotiations. But Monday, Mutua said he was now ready for &#39;open and candid talks&#39; with the doctors&#39; representatives for the sake of saving lives of patients. &quot;That is why I am calling for a fresh structured dialogue with no preconditions from either side. On my end, I have no preconditions,&quot; Mutua said in a statement released to journalists through his press secretary, Mutinda Mwanzia. Operations at all public hospitals throughout the county including Machakos Level Five, Kangundo Level Four, Kathiani Level Four, Matuu Level Four and Nguluni health centre in Matungulu have been in limbo following the strike. The development came as two MPs called on the governor to swiftly end the crisis in public hospitals. Addressing the media Monday in Machakos town, Woman Representative Susan Musyoka asked Health Cabinet Secretary Cleopha Mailu to intervene. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;