NAIROBI: Members of&nbsp;Senate Finance Committee have complained of delays in dispensing petitions filed before them. Senators turned the heat on committee chairman Billow Kerrow accusing him of not calling meetings to deal with the issues. While Senate Standing Orders requires that petitions must be dispensed with, and report tabled in the House within 60 days, the committee members wondered why petitions against Bungoma Governor Kenneth Lusaka and that of his Vihiga counterpart Moses Akaranga had not been dispensed, long past the stipulated time. Notably, the petition against Vihiga county executive was said to have been lying before the committee for the last six months. The concern was raised after Mr Lusaka failed to appear before the committee to defend himself against multiple allegations of financial impropriety touching on the procurement of goods and services, revenue collection and distribution of allocated money. Petitioners calling for a forensic audit and prosecution of those found culpable have raised more than 20 issues, questioning how money allocated to the devolved unit was used between 2013 and 2015. But the governor irked the committee members yesterday after he sent them an email, requesting that the meeting is rescheduled to allow him time to respond to the allegations. He claimed to have had only received the communication to appear on Monday, yet the same was sent on August 19. READ MORE Elders&rsquo; negotiated democracy stirs debate as leaders fight back Of clans and negotiated democracy in Kenya RETIRED: Clan blocks elected Mandera leaders from 2017 polls Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang&#39;ula said the delays in concluding the petition was a major concern to residents who wanted justice served on those responsible for misappropriation of funds. &quot;Already the governor is boasting out there that this petition will not be heard further. Why is it that this petition has been pending before this committee for more than two months. The last time it came before the committee was on July 19, suspiciously it took a month before we could call the governor to respond after we heard from petitioners,&quot; Mr Wetang&#39;ula complained. Committee members Wetang&#39;ula, Boni Khalwale (Kakamega) and Mutahi Kagwe (Nyeri) took issue with Kerrow (Mandera) over the delays in dispensing the petitions and resolved to call an in-house meeting to resolve the matter. Kerrow was not present and Migori Senator Wilfred Machage chaired the meeting. &quot;We are doing an injustice to petitioners. The long time we are taking is taking away the heat and making the matter lose public interest. Petitions must be heard within 60 days,&quot; said Wetang&#39;ula as the committee received further complaints from Vihiga Senator George Khaniri, who said the petition in respect of his county had taken over six months.