The tectonic plates that shape the country&rsquo;s political landscape are set to shift again. In terms of proportion, the launch of Jubilee Party perhaps compares to the momentous political developments witnessed in 1991, 2002 and 2008. They&rsquo;re moments that changed our politics in fundamental ways. In 1991, within the backdrop of a wave of democratisation sweeping across the globe, multipartyism was ushered in following the repeal of section 2A of the Constitution. A quarter of a century later the jury on our dalliance with multipartyism is still out there. For some it&rsquo;s been a mixed bag of outcomes. Multipartyism faced perhaps its sternest test in 2002, when the ruling party Kanu merged with Raila Odinga&rsquo;s NDP, the main opposition party at the time. The endeavour quickly fell apart when Moi&rsquo;s preferred successor became evident. The rest is history. However, it&rsquo;s the violence that followed the 2007 disputed presidential election that would unleash forces which continue to define and shape our politics. And, the ripples will be felt for many more years to come. First, the post-election violence gave birth to a power-sharing arrangement under a Grand Coalition government. And although the country enjoyed relative political calm during this period, critics say it effectively muted the opposition and posed a threat to multipartyism. READ MORE Parties must invest heavily in fair nominations Jubilee nominations will be free and fair, says Ruto Raila: Jubilee cash is suspect but we are not scared of them Secondly, the post-election violence put us on the international spotlight, complete with the ignominy of our leaders being dragged before the ICC. Thirdly, and completely by default, it laid the foundation for and gave impetus to a new political formation that would capture power in 2013. The launch of the Jubilee Party, therefore, perpetuates this political roller coaster. However, in some quarters, there is growing unease and anxiety that this development could pose renewed threat to multipartyism. And, as Jubilee&rsquo;s dominant party experiment begins something odd sticks out like a sore thumb: For the very first time since 1982 Raila isn&rsquo;t a key player in an event that has far-reaching political ramifications for the future of the country. The initiative, it would seem, has been wrested from him. Raila has been thrust into the unusual and unenviable position of playing catch up. It&rsquo;s unlikely that Raila&rsquo;s ODM, the principal partner in the CORD coalition, can crank up the planned, week-end long 10-year party celebrations to match or even eclipse the Jubilee grandeur unfolding in Nairobi. Politics is about perceptions. With nearly a dozen affiliates dissolved and merged into one giant party Jubilee is consolidating and entrenching itself in power. A second-term for President Uhuru Kenyatta is the immediate-term goal. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;