The case against two male members of Kisii County Assembly reportedly caught red handed with underage school girls raises the flag on the moral bankruptcy of our leaders and society at large. Though they deserve fair trial, meaning they should not be adjudged guilty until proven so, the fact that the drama played out in public glare as wananchi threatened to lynch them, points at the seriousness of the problem. The children came from, and those familiar with Swahili should have something about this school&rsquo;s name, Nduru Secondary, and they were reportedly seen not just in a lodging, but later changing clothes in the vehicle the MCA&rsquo;s were using. There is an incestuous relationship between poverty and the lowering or raising of the moral bar. How? The rich use money like nectar to attract the poor who follow its scent like bees. Let us assume the girls are from poor families and the MCA&rsquo;s helped them directly (with the knowledge of their parents, community and school) through ward funds, or indirectly, through token contribution from their fat salaries and allowances. But as they say in any endeavour, it is good to start with the end in mind and so may be, the MCA&rsquo;s did what farmers do; fattening the ram before slaughter. READ MORE Kisii MCAs spend second night in cells for defilement Kenyan nominated MCAs eyeing elective posts Let us protect street children, they are not punching bags We do not as of now know what exactly transpired, or even if the escapade was &lsquo;consummated&rsquo;, albeit with minors and in an exploitative rather than symbiotic relationship akin to that of consenting adults. We just know that there was a fight in court about police filing what one parent termed a &lsquo;weak&rsquo; charge sheet. Now, this is a loaded statement for those who know how our country&rsquo;s prosecution system works. These MCA&rsquo;s may be proven innocent or the parents of the girls may eventually be talked to to settle the matter outside court; which is not a strange thing because that is how lowly we often treat our children, but this is a wake-up call to all of us; a call to scrutinise our conscience. The bigger question we should be asking is; how low have we sunk as a society? I just read of a Governor in some corner of the Rift Valley who has found an easier way to deal with his amorous spirit. He &lsquo;supports&rsquo; and befriends widows! Then there are leaders, in public and private offices, who help poor girls get odd jobs here and there, but not before they jump into their hired beds. Others are even orphans who have no one to look up to. There are also the poor girls in some universities who, and there is no hard proof so far, sleep with lecturers to get good exam grades. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;