The Orange party rebel governors and MPs have dared party leader Raila Odinga to expel them for supporting Jubilee Party. Responding to reports on the party&#39;s intention to remove them from its register over violation of the law, the leaders said they do not fear facing the electorate in a by-election. They, however, promised to engage ODM in a battle, saying they would only go for elections after exhausting all legal arsenals at their disposal. Governors Ukur Yatani (Marsabit), Salim Mvurya (Kwale), Deputy Governor Joash Maangi (Kisii), MPs Steven Kariuki (Mathare), Mpuru Aburi (Tigania East), Gideon Mung&#39;aro (Kilifi North), Mustafa Iddi (Kilifi South), Cyprian Kubai (Igembe Central) and James Rege (Karachuonyo) have publicly announced that they have joined Jubilee Party. Others who have also indicated that they would be defending their current positions on JP ticket include Samuel Arama (Nakuru Town West), John Waluke (Sirisia) nominated MP Isaac Mwaura and Kwale County Woman Representative Zainabu Chidzuga. Wednesday, Mr Iddi and Mr Aburi lashed out at Raila describing him as &quot;ungrateful leader who thrives in suppressing independent thinkers.&quot; READ MORE Raila tells defectors to resign and seek fresh mandate CORD in trouble over primaries as Wetang'ula party gives new demands Opposition to Vice Chancellor in bad taste &quot;We will explore everything within our disposal before we decide to go for a by-election. We will fight it in courts because this time is not for elections,&quot; said Iddi. Supported Raila Aburi said he had supported Raila since 1991 and did not expect the Opposition chief to suggest their expulsion from the party. Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya also said he would only comment after receiving the letter. Governor Yatani, Karachuonyo MP James Rege and Kubai said they would comment once they receive the disciplinary letters. Mr Rege said once he gets the letter, he would want the party to prove to him that he had defected to Jubilee. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;