NAIROBI: Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga&#39;s role in Kenya&#39;s so-called Second Liberation is well documented. Together with his late father, Jaramogi Oginga Odinga (arguably Kenya&#39;s doyen of Opposition politics), they joined forces with others agitating for the reintroduction of multi-party politics in 1991 and most recently, he was in the lead campaigning for the change of the Independence Constitution that ushered in the 2010 Constitution. His much-acclaimed &#39;Kibaki Tosha&#39; proclamation at Uhuru Park in October 2002 helped rout the increasingly unpopular Kanu party from power, accentuating Kenya&#39;s democratic credentials. Yet, his sometimes abrasive nature has cast him as intolerant; one who would rather have his way or the highway, consequently earning him the moniker, Tinga. Comments attributed to him over the weekend while in Narok County calling on communities to take up arms should commissioners of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) still be in office today were unfortunate and reckless. It would be easy to dismiss those as populist remarks made in the heat of the moment at an emotionally charged political rally. But Mr Odinga is no ordinary Kenyan. He is a leader, a politician. And the weight that his comments carry cannot be taken lightly. He commands a huge following and he knows the consequences of such utterances. It only helps to unnecessarily turn up political heat as the campaign season sets in. Nobody begrudges his (and his followers&#39;) feelings of grievance against the IEBC. But such comments don&#39;t advance his agenda; they reinforce certain negative prejudices. In May, weekly riots to force out IEBC commissioners led to death, injury and destruction of property. That should not be repeated. If at all, talks leading to the exit of the IEBC team were at an advanced stage and such utterances can at best make for good political sound bites and at worse, throw a spanner in the works. Mr Odinga ought to save the country the trauma such utterances cause.