The story is told of a teenage girl fleeing former Uganda President Idi Amin&rsquo;s oppressive regime in the 70s. That journey took her across the border, into Kenya, from where she made her way to the UK, where she arrived, with only $300. When she tried to change the money, which she had got from the black market, into Sterling Pounds at the airport, she discovered the currency notes were fake. Luckily, the police officer handling the matter sympathised with the frightened teen and let her off the hook. That kind gesture gave Winnie Byanyima a chance to stay in the UK where she landed a scholarship to study aeronautical engineering at the University of Manchester. Later, she pursued her Masters in Mechanical Engineering at Cranfield University. More than 30 years later, Byanyima would return to the UK, this time as the executive director of Oxfam International. She is the first African woman to run an international development agency. Leadership has somehow always come naturally for Byanyima. She served as an elected Member of Parliament for Mbarara Municipality for 10 years, before quitting politics in 2004 to join the African Union where she headed the Directorate of Women Gender and Development. She later headed the Gender and Development team at the UNDP. Byanyima, Uganda&rsquo;s first female aeronautical engineer, is also credited with co-founding the 60-member Gender and Climate Alliance, and chaired a UN task force on gender aspects of the Millenium Development Goals. READ MORE Kenya stamps authority in schools' athletics Timbe leads in Uganda Open Golf championship KENYANS FLYING HIGH IN UGANDA: Eleven golfers make cut in regional tourney She served in the diplomatic service in the 1980s, representing Uganda in France and at UNESCO in Paris. Upon her return to Uganda in 1994, she created an all-women parliamentary caucus and was founding leader of the Forum For Women in Democracy, a non-State body championing women&rsquo;s equal participation in decision-making. Byanyima, 57, was in Nairobi, last week, to attend the African Womens Leadership Symposium (AWLS), the inaugural one for the region. In attendance were about 150 participants from across the five sub-regions of Africa. The meeting was aimed at emphasising transformative leadership, and sought to enable women leaders identify ways to use their positions, existing frameworks and commitments made by policy and decision-makers in politics, business, religious and traditional settings. The organisers believe transformative leadership is critical in tackling gender inequalities and power imbalances that perpetuate marginalisation of women who make up over half of Africa&rsquo;s population. On the day of this interview, Byanyima is running late, but apologises. Her simplicity, charming smile and warm demeanour belie a steely resolve to fight social injustices. It is a conviction that led to her quitting her job as a flight engineer with Uganda Airlines and take to the bush to join the National Resistance Army in its campaign to topple president Milton Obote. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 4 Next &raquo;