Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi has reached out to his CORD counterparts to join hands because they have a common goal of removing Jubilee from power. He said joining hands will enable them form a formidable force and it will be difficult to stop from ascending to power next year. &ldquo;If we unite and work together, we shall lay an onslaught on Jubilee that will send them home as they have lost focus,&rdquo; Mudavadi said. &ldquo;I therefore appeal to my brothers Raila (Odinga), Kalonzo (Musyoka) and (Moses) Wetang&rsquo;ula that it&rsquo;s time to stop the talk. You want Jubilee sent packing by 8am on August 8, 2017? We have one weapon against this frightful regime &mdash; that weapon is Musalia Mudavadi. We have no time to argue, I am willing, ready and rearing to go.&rdquo; He was speaking at the burial of artiste William Ingosi, popular for Mwana wa Mberi song, and later at Kapsotik Primary School in a requiem mass for Vihiga Senator George Khaniri&rsquo;s niece Kate Kageha. Mudavadi said the Jubilee government has shown arrogance that needs to be got rid off. &ldquo;Everyone is getting ready for elections. Some are even telling us our job is to smell the aroma and not eat the meat. I felt insulted, totally violated when this was said to my face in Narok. Remember one time we were called cooks and watchmen,&rdquo; he told mourners. READ MORE Stand-off over rally venue quite unnecessary Contest under other parties or face lock out, JP aspirants told Don't panic over my bid, Wamalwa tells aspirants He urged the people to wake up and remember Vladmir Lenin, a Russian revolutionary, once said even a cook can be president. &ldquo;Let&rsquo;s accept that we are not eating any meat, but we smell power and we want power. Let&rsquo;s all smell power,&rdquo; Mudavadi said. He added he is ready for the presidency and urged residents to join him in removing the &ldquo;abusive&rdquo; Jubilee regime. &ldquo;The Jubilee regime has the audacity to tell us we can only smell the meat even if we cook it. We must vow that anyone supporting Jubilee in this region is lost. We must also vow that we shall all vote for only one person for president &mdash; Musalia Mudavadi,&rdquo; he said. Khalwale said President Uhuru Kenyatta confirmed to Kenyans he was not elected to serve Kenyans but to eat. &ldquo;The meat they are eating is Eurobond, proceeds from SGR and money set aside to buy laptops for Standard One pupils,&rdquo; he said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;