African governments have been asked to strengthen their laws and abolish excessive regulations if they want to attract Japanese corporations. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe also asked the governments to ensure peace and stability. He spoke as curtains fell on the 6th Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD VI) summit attended by 35 African heads of state. African leaders have on many occasions spoken against interference by the West, led by the Bretton Woods institutions; the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Even as Mr Abe spelt out the requirements, President Uhuru Kenyatta intensified his onslaught against &ldquo;amorphous institutions&rdquo;, which he said care little about the input of Africans. Addressing a private sector session, Abe called on African governments to create &ldquo;safe business environments&rdquo;, guarantee peace and stability and reduce red tape if they want Japan investors in the continent. READ MORE Strong ties with Japan good for Africa KALOLENI OFF TO WINNING START: Mwanahalima leads St John&rsquo;s to victory over Rwandese side Kakamega bully off Kenya's 15s rugby title defence &ldquo;What Japanese companies desire on the part of Africa is very clear. They seek the establishment of safe business environments and the realisation of free and stable corporate activities,&rdquo; he said as he urged Africans to maintain peace and stability &ldquo;which are top priorities for Japanese wishing to carry out business activities&rdquo;. TERRORIST ATTACKS He also called for the abolishing of the excessive regulations, developing the necessary legal framework and ensuring its use. The many terrorist attacks in Kenya saw the country&rsquo;s tourism industry nearly brought to its knees after many western countries issued travel advisory, warning their citizens against visiting the country. Uhuru, however, told Abe that Africans will continue working for a partnership that is of &ldquo;mutual&rdquo; benefit. &ldquo;In the past, decisions were made by amorphous institutions that made little sense to ordinary Africans,&rdquo; said Uhuru. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;