There is a new push to cut down on the public wage bill and contain wastefulness in public service by reducing the number of members of national and county assemblies as well as forcing job cuts in the civil service. Also proposed is the reduction of membership to the high-paying independent commissions. An unprecedented increase in &lsquo;unaccounted expenditure&rsquo; from Sh37 billion of actual expenditure in 2012-2013 to Sh67 billion in 2013-2014 is cited as &ldquo;a sign that public funds are not used in the right manner&rdquo;. A report prepared by a team chaired by Auditor General Edward Ouko that did a socio-economic audit of the Constitution passed in 2010 recommended the measures to curb wastage in public institutions, counties and other governance bodies. The audit found that Kenyans were &#39;over-represented&#39; as the country has more representatives (number of members of National Assembly, Senate and county assemblies) compared to countries with similar population and size of economy. Not only is the number of MPs above the global average but Kenyan lawmakers are also some of the most highly paid in the world, pocketing &quot;more than representatives in some of the advanced economies&quot;. READ MORE Ouko team says August elections will affect budgeting Auditor General wants more cash for thorough audit Senate grills Governor Munya on auditor's budget queries &quot;Kenya should reduce the number of MPs and MCAs without compromising national values on diversity, protection of vulnerable groups, and the marginalised, and the equality principle regarding gender,&quot; reads the report of the Working Group established by the National Assembly in February 2014 and which tabled its report in Parliament yesterday. It recommends that the restructuring of public service should begin in earnest, adding &quot;redundant staff at the county level should be assisted out of public service&quot;. Job cuts are also envisaged at the top level to eliminate duplicity as the report noted &quot;the policy should aim to establish a lean and efficient senior cadre in public service&quot;. Independent commissions Further, it proposes the membership of independent commissions, which presently comprises up to nine, should be reduced to a minimum of three and a maximum of five. To curb looting at the counties, the report says the Controller of Budget should sanction withdrawals only after ensuring they are meant for &quot;mandated functions&quot;. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;