KAKAMEGA: The race for the governor&#39;s seat continued to pick up pace as Jubilee told the incumbent, Wycliffe Oparanya, to ditch ODM in exchange for support. Campaigns intensified ahead of next year&#39;s General Election as Jubilee legislators withdrew their support for the governor until he crosses over or they will field another candidate. However, Mr Oparanya, who is also an ODM deputy party leader, declared he would not leave his party, arguing it was the most popular in the larger Western region. Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale and former county executive Suleiman Sumba have declared their interest in replacing Oparanya. Jubilee is likely to front former Butere MP Amukowa Anangwe (below) to take Oparanya on. Both Oparanya and Prof Anangwe come from Butere. Speaking from Dodoma University in Tanzania where he lectures, Anangwe said: &quot;I am preparing to come back to Kakamega to start my campaigns. I am confident I will deliver the seat for Jubilee.&quot; Dr Khalwale insisted he could even face Oparanya in the CORD nominations, claiming he had the support of a considerable number of lower-class citizens and was optimistic that they would vote for him. READ MORE Governors in plea to Raila to save their seats as ODM courts new alliances CORD likely to name flag-bearer for 2017 early next year Nyong&rsquo;o and Raila's sister give Ranguma sleepless nights &quot;I control the hoi poloi - the bullfighters, sugarcane cutters and farmers, boda boda riders. Those are my people and I know they will vote for me,&quot; said Khalwale. Mumias East MP Ben Washiali, who has been a staunch Oparanya supporter, has since changed his tune. He joined scores of Jubilee-friendly MPs to declare they would not support the governor&#39;s re-election and hinted that they would front their own candidate. &quot;Unless he crosses over to Jubilee, he should forget our support,&quot; said Emmanuel Wangwe (MP, Navakholo). Mr Washiali, who has since broken ranks with Oparanya, said yesterday: &quot;As Jubilee, we will field a candidate to vie for the governor&#39;s seat in Kakamega.&quot; Others also opposed to Oparanya are Bernard Shinali (Ikolomani) and David Were (Matungu). Oparanya&#39;s decision to ignore Senate Public Accounts Committee summons on county expenditure has not gone down well with MPs. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;