Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto has vowed to give the new Jubilee Party (JP) a run for its money in next year&#39;s elections. Speaking in Sotik when he presided over a fundraiser for a shoe shiners&#39; association, Mr Ruto told Jubilee to prepare for a battle of titans against his Chama Cha Mashinani (CCM) party. &quot;When they are in Nairobi, they should remember that we are here on the ground and we will not give them room even for a day to dictate what we should do and who we will vote for,&quot; he said. The former Council of Governors chairman, who has opposed the merger of parties to form JP, said the move was a plot by some people to dictate to Kenyans how to vote so that they can retain leadership. Ruto said CCM would field candidates for all seats except the presidency to battle it out with Jubilee. &quot;We will be on the ballot with MCAs, MPs, senators and governors. Jubilee should prepare for a rough time and also be ready to answer the questions we will ask them when they seek re-election in 2017,&quot; Ruto said as the grand launch of Jubilee Party was underway in Nairobi&#39;s Kasarani Stadium on Saturday. READ MORE URP kicks out five delegates ahead of Jubilee merger Governor Ruto says his new party will take over from URP Ruto faces uphill task as rivals slice away Rift Valley support The event was attended by thousands of delegates from across the country. At the same time, Ruto announced plans to officially launch his party in December after putting in place all the necessary structures. &quot;We are planning a launch for CCM in December and that is when reality will dawn on some people that we are not abandoning our movement to champion for the rights of the poor in this country,&quot; he said. Among the leaders who have opposed the Jubilee merger in the South Rift are Emurua Dikirr MP Johanna Ng&#39;eno and his Kuresoi counterpart Zakayo Cheruiyot. Mr Ng&#39;eno vowed to ditch his Kenya National Congress Party and defend his seat on a CCM ticket come 2017. He said there was need to nurture alternative parties to act as a voice for those being mistreated by the national government. The vocal MP has teamed up with Governor Ruto to popularise CCM in Narok, Bomet and Kericho over the last two months, using the platform to woo support. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;