CORD leader Raila Odinga has told President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Jubilee team to forget the Abagusii vote. Raila pointed out that Jubilee government had failed to deliver on its 2013 campaign promises. Addressing hundreds of youth and party leaders during a forum dubbed &ldquo;Kikao45&rdquo; at the Gusii Stadium yesterday, Raila accused the Jubilee administration of using &ldquo;cheap and false&rdquo; promises as a bait to woo voters. &ldquo;There is one thing I want to put to rest today. The Jubilee brigade has been making many trips to Kisii. They think they can turn the Abagusii into chicken which they can trap using maize,&rdquo; said Raila. &ldquo;We want to tell Jubilee Party that the Abagusii are not on sale. They should forget Kisii because we will not allow them to take it. Tutawakamatia chini,&rdquo; he said borrowing from a song &ldquo;Kamatia Chini&rdquo; by artist Navy Kenzo. Paradigm shift READ MORE Robbers kill factory security guard, steal 65 bags of coffee Split in CORD? Not at all, principals vow Governor Mutua: Maendeleo Chap Chap to field candidates He rallied the community&rsquo;s youth, urging them to unseat Jubilee government from power by leading a campaign to register voters enmass. Raila was accompanied by governors James Ongwae (Kisii), Evans Kidero (Nairobi), John Nyangarama (Nyamira), Okoth Obado (Migori), ODM chairman John Mbadi and several MPs allied to CORD. The former Prime Minister told the Jubilee administration to start preparing to leave office because it had failed Kenyans. &ldquo;Jubilee is now busy holding sectoral summits at State House every Monday to discuss their performance. They are drawing new strategies. We want to tell them that this is not the time to work on new strategies, it&rsquo;s time to give a score card on what they have done. They have no score card and they should just go. Waanze kufunga virago,&rdquo; Raila charged. Raila went on: &ldquo;They are saying they have created 50,000 jobs in four years but this is a drop in the ocean. They have just scratched the surface.&rdquo; He said Kenyans were tired of the Jubilee administration and were getting impatient. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;