Even before the dust settles after the much-publicised launch of Jubilee Party, wrangles pitting incumbent leaders against aspirants in Mt Kenya region have started to emerge. For the past two weeks, infighting and physical confrontations have been reported in various counties with the leaders flexing their muscles as they attempt to grab various key positions in the counties. The scenarios have forced the national security agencies to intervene. Central Regional Security Committee chaired by Regional Coordinator Naftali Mung&rsquo;athia met in his Nyeri office on Wednesday where they announced that political temperatures in the region are rising. &ldquo;Political temperatures in the region are rising as politicians jostle for party positions and in the run-up to the General Elections next year. As a result, the region is bound to see increasing incidents of violence and/or incitement to violence as politicians try to outdo each other,&rdquo; Mr Mung&rsquo;athia noted in a statement sent to newsrooms. In Murang&rsquo;a, County Commissioner John Elungata formed a police unit to avert clashes during the political meetings. &ldquo;The police unit will be in all the campaign meetings to ensure what happened in Kandara would not recur,&rdquo; Mr Elungata said. Mr Simon Mithamo, a Laikipia Senatorial aspirant condemned the incidents, saying leaders should respect President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s calls for unity in the party. &ldquo;Anybody aspiring to be a candidate in JP primaries should have no business fighting for party positions in the grassroots, or even opening the offices since the positions will go to residents of any given area. Endless fights READ MORE Defectors to cost taxpayers Sh1 billion in case of by-elections Rebel governors, MPs now dare Raila to kick them out Opposition to Vice Chancellor in bad taste &ldquo;All officials of parties that formed JP should instead sit together and decide how they will manage the party in the counties instead of starting off with fights,&rdquo; Mr Mithamo said. Nyeri County MP aspirant Rahab Mukami said the delay in naming party officials, especially at the national level, was causing anxiety among members, more so aspirants. Ms Mukami feels that the position of JP secretary general should go Onyango Oloo who held the same post in the former The National Alliance (TNA) to ensure regional balance. This week, physical confrontations were reported in Laikipia, Nyandarua and Murang&rsquo;a, where political camps attempted to stamp their authority in the newly formed JP. Some leaders are even invoking the president&rsquo;s name in attempts to take over the party administration as others open parallel JP offices. In Kandara town, area MP Alice Wahome and four aspirants seeking to unseat her in next year&rsquo;s polls opened parallel JP offices a few metres from each other. The aspirants led by Samuel Kamau (S K), Pius Ngugi, former MP Maina Kamau and Njuguna wa Ruth alias PMG accused the MP of sidelining them in opening of the party offices and they opened a parallel one in protest. They claimed that Ms Wahome was traversing the constituency saying she was the president&rsquo;s preferred candidate. &ldquo;Recently, the MP brought female lawmakers who said they had a special message from the president to the people of Kandara that the incumbent was his preferred candidate in the forthcoming polls,&rdquo; Mr Kamau said. The aspirants signed a Memorandum of Understanding which they said will be taken to the president asking him to clear the air over the MP&rsquo;s claims. But Wahome defended herself saying; &ldquo;These are people who have no agenda for the people of Kandara. They have united four people against one woman, meaning they fear me. We will meet at the ballot and I am confident I will defeat them at 8 am.&rdquo; GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;