At least one million children are still out of primary school although education is free in Kenya, the Government has said. Most of those still out of school are girls mainly due to early marriages, HIV/AIDs and lack of sanitary towels. &quot;Kenya has nearly attained national gender parity in enrolment at primary level but close scrutiny reveals serious gender disparities between regions with regard to access, retention, completion, performance and transition,&quot; said Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang&#39;i. He said despite the remarkable increase in access at both primary and secondary, statistics indicate over one million children are still out of school, especially at the primary level. &quot;Gender disparities are more pronounced in the Arid and Semi-Arid Lands, urban pockets of poverty and urban slums with the girl child being the most affected,&quot; said Matiang&#39;i. girls and boys READ MORE Accord both sexes equal recognition Women&rsquo;s liberation not yet fully realised Senate reads riot act to leaders for varsity protest &quot;The parity index between girls and boys increased from 0.95 in 2009 to 1.05 in 2014. Thus there were more boys than girls at the beginning of the period, which changed to having more girls than boys in 2014,&quot; said the CS who spoke in Nairobi yesterday during celebrations to mark the International Day of the Girl Child. In primary education, the parity index improved over that period but did not get to equality by 2014. Equality is yet to be achieved even today. &quot;At the secondary level, gender equality is still low at 0.92 despite some improvement in parity index, thus there are fewer girls than boys in secondary schools,&quot; said Matiang&#39;i. Matiang&#39;i said lack of sanitary pads is one of the reasons girls miss school. This has also contributed to poor performance among the upper primary pupils between Standard Five and Eight. It is against this backdrop that the Government increased allocation for the sanitary towels programme from Sh240 million in 2012 to Sh400 in 2015. &quot;Absenteeism may not end any time soon unless measures are taken to address the sanitary towels problem. Sustainable provision of sanitary towels will give girls dignity, improve hygiene, reduce absenteeism and school drop-out rates, therefore improving their grades,&quot; the CS said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;