Battle for the governorship in Mt Kenya counties has sparked of animosity as incumbents and aspirants seek to out do each other. Violent confrontations among leaders have been witnessed recently, while other parties have moved to court in a bid to block rivals from vying for the position. A case on point is Kiambu Governor William Kabogo who moved to court to challenge Kabete MP Ferdinand Waititu&rsquo;s qualifications for governorship. However, Mr Waititu has insisted that he will be in the contest. Last Sunday, Runyenjes MP Cecily Mbarire and Embu Senator Lenny Kivuti nearly engaged in fist fight after Ms Mbarire accused the senator of undermining her in her constituency (See separate story on Page 20). Both leaders are seeking to unseat Embu Governor Martin Wambora. On Friday, Mr Kivuti publicly declared his interest in the position after he was endorsed by Nyangi and Ngome councils of elders at his home in Mbeere North. The Senator said he has been holding consultations with the elders since Monday and they resolved that he declares his intention to end speculations on his candidature. READ MORE How CORD defectors could force repeat of 1966 mass by-elections Gusii leaders remain divided after Jubilee Party launch Kiraitu raises the red fl ag over chaos in Jubilee turfs &ldquo;I had to heed to the elders who have been pushing me to vie for the gubernatorial seat. I am grateful for their endorsement, blessings and support,&rdquo; he said. Kivuti referred to a pre-2013 General Election Memorandum of Understanding on guided democracy by Embu leaders and elders that provided that should the governor hail from the Embu community, the Senator should be from the Mbeere sub-tribe. He said since the current governor is from Embu, then the pact should be respected to allow a candidate for Mbeere to take over the seat. The MoU if honoured, will deal a blow to Mr Wambora and Mbarire who are from Embu. Mr Eston Nyaga, the chairman of Ngome Council of elders hailed Kivuti&rsquo;s achievements and promised to drum up support for him in the county. A month ago, there was tension at a women group&rsquo;s funds drive presided by Kigumo MP Jamleck Kamau&rsquo;s wife, Mrs Agnes Irungu, after Murang&rsquo;a Governor Mwangi wa Iria and his supporters stormed the venue forcing some members to flee for fear of their safety. Forced out GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;