At least four parties from Jubilee strongholds are angling themselves to benefit from the &lsquo;twin blessings&rsquo; of fallouts from the merger and forced ban on party hopping. With history of dubious primaries in popular parties on their side and a more enlightened electorate to bail them out, the parties cannot wait to reap from an anticipated fallout. And they are saying as much. The common denominator for all the parties lying in wait is their direct &mdash; and in some cases implied &mdash; support for Jubilee presidential ticket of President Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto as his deputy. In the Deputy President&rsquo;s Rift Valley backyard, independence party Kanu and Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto&rsquo;s Chama cha Mashinani are likely to reap big from any disenfranchisement caused by dissolution of the United Republican Party (URP). &ldquo;People are wondering what this Jubilee Party is. They are now trooping back home to the Jogoo party and they will be surprised, Kanu will be the party to beat in Rift Valley and nationally,&rdquo; said West Pokot Senator John Lonyangapuo. Kanu has six legislators, a governor and several members of county assembly in the region. READ MORE Kanu allies demand Deputy President William Ruto's apology over 'insults' Jubilee nominations will be free and fair, says Ruto 27 MPs ditch opposition for President Uhuru&rsquo;s new Jubilee Party With URP now gone, CCM says it will push harder to popularise itself riding on the vacuum left by the Jubilee parties. &ldquo;We want to push for more representation of the grass root citizens in decision making, more attention to health, education, better roads, opportunities for youths among others,&rdquo; said Ruto. The governor claimed top Jubilee leadership already has a list of preferred candidates for various elective positions. The same sentiments are shared by Meru Governor Peter Munya who resisted the folding up of Alliance Party of Kenya (APK) until he was shoved aside. Munya, who is now cohabiting with the Party of National Unity (PNU), said Jubilee has neither the interest nor the will to conduct free and fair nominations. &ldquo;We will take advantage of the fall out to offer leaders opportunity to compete at the ballot. Politics is about seizing advantages. Jubilee has rolled back the democratic clock and reduced Kenya&rsquo;s political space against our wishes and advice. We are offering that space,&rdquo; Munya said. Clause 5 of the draft Jubilee Party Nomination Rules 2016 appears to support Ruto and Munya&rsquo;s sentiments. Clause 5.1 says the party&rsquo;s National Executive Council (NEC) shall be responsible for receiving and considering the various &ldquo;Provisional Party Nomination Lists&rdquo; from the National Elections Board. It shall also give &ldquo;overriding directions and guidelines and final determination and approval of the National Assembly, gubernatorial, Senate, county assembly and nomination lists.&rdquo; GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;