In a period of six months this year, the Jubilee government acquired a foreign debt of Sh226 billion. With that, Kenya&rsquo;s total foreign debt has reached over Sh3 trillion, the highest in the region. A document tabled before the National Assembly last week showed that during the six-month period, the country signed 18 loan agreements to finance various projects, including Sh60 billion from the Chinese &lsquo;to ease the cost&nbsp;of doing business&#39; in the country, and a Sh20 billion syndicated facility to help revive the troubled national carrier, Kenya Airways (KQ). The Treasury&#39;s report was tabled just a month after the UN warned that Kenya is among African countries whose debt burden is unsustainable. In a report titled Economic Development in Africa Report 2016, the UN Conference on Trade and Development (Unctad) advised the country to reduce her reliance on external funding as &#39;the external debt continually looks unsustainable.&quot; In May, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) also raised the red flag over the country&#39;s appetite for Beijing loans, which notably, form a huge chuck of the report tabled in the National Assembly. KQ faces turbulent times. Yesterday&#39;s strike by employees forced the airline to cancel flights leading to many losses. READ MORE Why 2017 is hard tackle for Jubilee Factions emerge in Jubilee Party strongholds ahead of officials&rsquo; list Senior county officers in Central and South Rift to quit for 2017 polls But the sad part of the loans, the report reveals, is that the taxpayer is expected to repay the billions in the next two years &#39;in one single repayment.&#39; This means that should KQ fail to make money before the maturity period, Treasury will either have to renegotiate the loan or slice off from other profitable sectors of the economy. To add to the burden, the country will have to ensure that infrastructural projects financed by the Chinese loan provide real economic benefits within the same period, as under the agreement, the creditor expects the money &quot;in one single payment of US dollars 200 million starting July 2018.&#39; KQ TURNAROUND The KQ facility, which Treasury indicated was meant to &#39;support the turnaround process of Kenya Airways through the restructuring of its balance sheet&#39; was taken from the African Export Import Bank while that of China was signed with the China Development Bank. The list of loans covers the period between February and July this year, and was made available under provisions of the Public Finance Management (PFM) Act, which compels Treasury to submit to Parliament a memorandum of all loans agreements entered by the Government. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;