As the clock ticks towards the 2017 General Election, Jubilee Party and the Coalition for Reforms and Democracy (CORD) have intensified their hunt for votes, especially in counties perceived to be undecided. Narok and Kajiado counties have emerged as political battle grounds for the two major rivals that, in the recent past, have intensified their vote hunts by reaching out to opinion leaders from the Maasai community. President Uhuru Kenyatta and CORD leader Raila Odinga have employed different strategies to reach out to the Maa community, whose voting pattern in the 2013 General Election suggests the votes are up for grabs. For decades, the struggle for land rights has always defined the tone of Maasai politics and leadership in the two counties. At a crossroads But with the demise of the legendary politician William ole Ntimama - who played a major role in championing rights of the community and helped them chart their political path every election year - the Maasai people are at a crossroads. READ MORE Run on other parties or face lock out, Jubilee Party aspirants warned Contest under other parties or face lock out, JP aspirants told Stand-off over rally venue quite unnecessary During Ntimama&rsquo;s burial at his Motonyi farm in Narok County on Wednesday, it was evident that the scramble for the Masaai vote will be more intense and vicious, as the country approaches the polls. Political pundits say the political spat between President Kenyatta and Raila at Ntimama&rsquo;s burial was a clear sign that the Maasai vote was crucial to the two leaders. &ldquo;In the last General Election in Kajiado County, Uhuru garnered 138,851 votes against Raila&rsquo;s 117,856 votes. Statistically, the county is torn right in the middle between Jubilee and CORD,&rdquo; observed Dr Philip Chebunet, a political science lecturer at University of Eldoret. Prior to his death, Ntimama had shown all indications that the Maasai community was ready to support President Kenyatta&rsquo;s re-election. On August 8, less than a month before his death, Ntimama led a delegation of Maasai leaders from Narok and Laikipia in announcing that they were prepared to join the Jubilee Party en-masse. The CORD leadership, however, is convinced that Ntimama was misled by his handlers into entering into a pact with the President and hoped to convince him to change his mind and return &ldquo;home&rdquo;. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;