Meru Senator Kiraitu Murungi&nbsp;is warning that wrangles witnessed&nbsp;in Jubilee strongholds pose a real&nbsp;threat to the survival of the new&nbsp;party. Kiraitu, a former JP National&nbsp;Steering Committee co-chair, has&nbsp;warned that the wrangles could&nbsp;cause internal hemorrhage with&nbsp;disastrous consequences at a time&nbsp;that &ldquo;our party needs to be welcoming members from the opposition&rdquo;. &ldquo;We have the opportunity to&nbsp;completely vanquish the opposition&nbsp;and come out as a strong national&nbsp;party that would bring about&nbsp;the unity that Kenyans are yearning&nbsp;for. But we have to ensure harmony&nbsp;across the branches of the party,&rdquo; says Kiraitu. Wrangles and political machinations in Jubilee Party strongholds have been blamed on a leadership vacuum at the top. Barely two weeks after President Uhuru Kenyatta launched JP, Mount Kenya leaders are engaged in vicious political battles to control the party. In Rift Valley, there is little excitement about the new party apart from the factions that emerged in areas like Nakuru before delegates headed to Nairobi on September 8 for JP&rsquo;s launch. Nandi Senator Stephen Sang said Rift Valley was waiting for the national officials to be unveiled before they pick interim officials at the counties. READ MORE Administrators step in to avert chaos as Jubilee aspirants insult each other Defectors to cost taxpayers Sh1 billion in case of by-elections Rebel governors, MPs now dare Raila to kick them out &ldquo;Once we have the county officials, we will then start mass recruitment of members. That (national officials) is what we are waiting for,&rdquo; Sang said. But this is in complete contrast to what is happening in Mt Kenya region. There is a rush by aspirants to arbitrarily open JP offices and declare themselves party officials in a bid to secure Jubilee tickets. And this is why former JP National Steering Committee co-chair and Meru Senator Kiraitu Murungi, is not mincing his words about the dangers of internal wrangles. He is cautioning that the wrangles could cause internal hemorrhage with disastrous consequences at a time that &ldquo;our party needs to be welcoming members from the Opposition.&rdquo; Public confrontation in Embu between Senator Lenny Kivuti and Runyenjes MP Cecily Mbarire and the clash in Murang&rsquo;a, where Kandara MP Alice Wahome and four aspirants seeking to unseat her in the next polls opened two parallel party offices a few metres from each other, set a worrying trend in the party. &ldquo;It is a matter of make or break and Kenyans will soon witness vicious battles in a political contest that could tear the new party apart,&rdquo; said a senior party official in Nyeri who declined to be named. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;