A Chief Executing Officer of a company that won a Sh302 million contract from the Ministry of Devolution has been put on the spot to justify how the firm landed the deal. Angela Angwenyi, the CEO of Out of the Box Solutions was yesterday hard pressed by members of the Public Accounts Committee to explain what the company did to deserve the lucrative award. Auditor General Edward Ouko in a special audit report on the accounts of the National Youth Service(NYS) had questioned the hefty payments to the firm which was among other private companies that did business with the ministry. Out of the Box Solutions Ltd won the tender to conduct sensitisation campaigns targeting women, youth and persons with disabilities, under the Access to Government Procurement Opportunities (AGPRO) program. During the session yesterday, Ms Angwenyi told members of the national assembly watchdog committee, that she has only been paid 30 per cent of the amount that had been agreed in the contract. &quot;We only have been paid Sh90,737,607 , which is 30 per cent of the total amount agreed, upon presenting approval documents of the campaign conception,&quot; explained Angwenyi, who was accompanied by the Chief Operation Officer Anthony Lungao. She disclosed at the meeting that she did 60 per cent of the work she had been contracted to do, and is yet to receive the remaining amount, several months after completing the work. Her admission prompted MPs Kanini Kega( Kega) and Andrew Mwadime( Mwatate) to wonder what action the company boss has taken since January, when she finished part of what was agreed . READ MORE Leaders tell courts to keep off Governor Gachagua impeachment Poll: Nyanza the biggest supporter of devolution Kenya&rsquo;s ailing county health centres without drugs and ambulances &quot;We have written to the Ministry, we are waiting for their response,&quot; she said. The committee chairperson Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo took issue with the manner in which the tender was awarded, pointing out that the huge amount involved meant that the person who won the contract must have been a top professional. &quot;I have vast experience in the media. My company which was registered in 2010 has done several jobs and projects for top clients. I had the strength and experience to execute the tender,&quot; she said. She however did not turn up with all documents and was directed to furnish the committee with the them.