When most people think of parenting they see in their mind&rsquo;s eye changing of napkins, running sleepless nights and higher budgets. But parenting in modern times has more challenges than that owing to work pressure and modern life in general. This is why most parents take their children to day care at a very young age and as time progresses they are moved from one boarding school to another. This creates a communication and trust gap between children and their parents. A report by a drug rehabilitation concern; Narconon Drug, indicates that a shocking number of currently detained inmates and rehab attendees admit they had a tumultuous upbringing having experienced emotional and physical neglect from their parents. Matters are worse when some parents move to foreign countries leaving their children with guardians or relatives. Parents need to have emotional involvement with their children. This helps the children learn how to regulate their emotions and interact with others well. According to Bethel Moges and Kristi weber sometimes, being physically there is not enough. Parents that may be nearby but that are not emotionally invested or responsive tend to raise children that are more distressed and less engaged with their play or activities. With less things to do the children tend to turn to drugs like marijuana as an escape route from their emotional distress. Research by the Radiological Society of North America (RSNA) has revealed that the longer the period a child lacks direct parental care the more the brain starts showing large volumes of grey matter. A larger number of parents are migrating in search of jobs or politics. The IS of left behind children tends to grow slowly as brain development is relatively slow. Whether it&rsquo;s mum or dad who is absent at home the child is still affected. Parents are being divorced or separated and fighting for the custody of their our old child denying their child the chance to have a family that is financially and emotionally stable. Children missing a father tend to develop behavioural problems to protect themselves from their abandonment issues. They tend to have a bad attitude to conceal their emotions of fear and resentment. This attitude influences by peers can lead them into drugs and consequently ruin their life. Lynn Kyallo, student, International relations, Strathmore University