ITEN: One person has been killed after two communities clashed over grazing field along the Kerio River in Elgeyo Marakwet County. During the Friday afternoon incident, the victim identified as Titus Kipchumba 27, was shot dead following a gunfight between members of Marakwet and Pokot communities. Elgeyo Marakwet AP Commander Hezron Opiyo said the clashes were sparked off when a group of armed Pokot youths crossed River Kerio and grazed their livestock at Sibow Village of Marakwet East Sub County near Marakwet irrigation farms funded by Kenya Red Cross which angered the local community. &quot;A fierce confrontation ensued between the two groups as the Marakwet attempted to drive back the livestock resulting into a gunfight where one person was shot dead,&quot; said the AP commander. He said they have intensified patrols along the border of the two communities to ensure normalcy as they pursue those responsible for the killings. But local residents have accused the government for neglecting the region claiming that over 20 people have been killed due to cattle raids noting the police officers are few to contain the insecurity. READ MORE Former police IG David Kimaiyo set to announce bid for senatorial seat From cattle rustling to running: the reel story Ethiopia militia frees ten Kenyan hostages Sawachan Kinur, a local resident, said the fights have displaced hundreds of people who have fled their homes in fear of more attacks and called for a decisive intervention to end the acrimony. &quot;No Marakwet living in the valley sleeps in the house but have sought refuge in caves and escapement because they fear they will be attacked. We need action to end this menace of cattle rustling,&quot; said Kinur. He said the insecurity is slowly turning the area into an economic lull and might increase poverty levels which had significantly reduced as a result of 15 years of peaceful co-existence. Kinur said tension was high and schools might be closed for fear of more attacks and called for immediate action and increasing the number of police reservists in the area.