Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho Thursday said preparations for the Saturday party celebrations are in top gear and denied reports that the Opposition planned the celebration to counter Jubilee&#39;s merger conference on the same day in Nairobi. Joho, who was accompanied by Kisauni MP Juma Bedzimba and his Mwatate counterpart Lawrence Mwadime, also denied defectors were wrecking ODM ahead of the 2017 General Election, saying the party remains strong as more people were knocking on its doors. The ODM deputy party leader was speaking when he inspected the seaside Mama Ngina Park where the party will hold its celebrations. &quot;Defections are expected at this time. Those who have lost on the ground are doing so to create sideshows. They can go because many more people are knocking on our doors. We are not worried or shaken about their exits,&quot; he said. &nbsp;Joho, Bedzimba and Mwadime assured supporters of adequate security and urged them to attend in large numbers. While on the campaign trail in Western Kenya, Party leader Raila Odinga has since dared those who want to leave the party to leave early before party primaries. READ MORE Former police IG David Kimaiyo set to announce bid for senatorial seat UK-based Kenyan politician to vie for presidency in 2017 elections Quit ODM officially and defend your seat in Jubilee, Mvurya told &nbsp;No mentioning names Asked whether former Cabinet Minister Chirau Ali Mwakwere would join the party, Joho said he would not mention names of those angling to join the party but noted that even some nominated leaders had indicated interest in ODM. &quot;In am not going to mention names but even nominated leaders are seeking to join ODM,&quot; he said. Joho noted that going by its performance in the Malindi by-election in March this year, it was evident that the Orange party remained popular at the Coast. The governor said the party has branded more than 47 vehicles in its colours ahead of the celebration. He said the Opposition is celebrating 10 years of being a major player on the country&#39;s political landscape. &quot;You are going to see more branded vehicles coming from Nairobi because more people are supporting our cause,&quot; Joho said.