NAIROBI: Private Universities have faulted a study that claims students who graduate from their institutions have low employability. The National Association of Private Universities in Kenya (NAPUK) termed the report commissioned by the British Council as &lsquo;misleading and tilted to malign private universities.&rsquo; &ldquo;There has never been a true record detailing the number of private university graduates denied opportunities in either public or private sector,&rdquo; said Vincent Gaitho, NAPUK secretary general. Dr Gaitho who teaches at Catholic University of East Africa (CUEA) questioned the government&rsquo;s motive to sponsor 12,000 students to private universities if the institutions have &lsquo;questionable contribution in job market.&rsquo; He also questioned the timing of the release of the report terming it &lsquo;malicious and lacking facts.&rsquo; The study was conducted&nbsp;between March 2013 and&nbsp;February&nbsp;201 across&nbsp;four countries&ndash;South Africa, Kenya,&nbsp;Nigeria and&nbsp;Ghana.&nbsp; &ldquo;Why would such study findings be released just when private universities are admitting government sponsored students? Are public universities scared of having a level play ground on education?&rdquo; said Dr Gaitho. READ MORE Does State, private varsities deal make economic sense? How private universities shared 12,000 government sponsored students Government to pay for 12,000 students to study at private universities within Kenya The study findings lists top public universities as dominating the top 10 list of institutions preferred by employers while recruiting employees. &ldquo;Why would the government send that huge number of students to private institutions unless they recognize the value and contribution of the universities in national development,&rdquo; he said. NAPUK deputy chairperson, Ken Mbiuki, said the report is &lsquo;a slap on face&rsquo; of the efforts by private institutions to support government achieve its development agenda. &ldquo;The report is not a true reflection of reality. Private universities have been producing graduates for a long time and the students get employed. Where is the data with contrary details,&rdquo; said Mbiuki who is also the founder of Zetech University. President Uhuru Kenyatta instructed the Kenya Universities and Colleges Central Placement Service (KUCCPS) to place students to private universities under government sponsorship. This is the first time the government will pay tuition fees for students admitted in private universities. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;