A war of words has broken out between Amani party leader Musalia Mudavadi and ODM leader Raila Odinga on CORD&rsquo;s presidential candidate in next year&rsquo;s elections. Angered by Raila&rsquo;s remarks at an ODM meeting on Friday night that CORD would not hand over the presidential ticket to anyone joining the coalition, Mudavadi yesterday said he is not begging to be in CORD. &quot;I am not begging to be in CORD. It is CORD that needs me. In any case, calls for me to partner with CORD started and remain in CORD. Any anxiety is their problem because I am forging on with my presidential bid,&quot; said Mr Mudavadi. He went on: &quot;Remember it is this closed shop mentality in ODM that led to our not working together in 2012. Raila seems to be saying he will run on an ODM ticket and not CORD. That is why he is promoting three-piece voting for ODM.&quot; While speaking at Laico Regency on Friday night during the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) life members&#39; party, Raila said ODM was open to working with other parties. &quot;Our party is open to political partnerships but I will not support outsiders to use our party ticket for the presidency. Doing so will be abdicating my duty to the party,&quot; said Raila. READ MORE Deputy governors plot their bosses' downfall in 2017 polls Headache for Uhuru and Ruto as scramble for top party posts starts Why deputy governors in Kenya need clear roles And on Saturday, Raila dismissed reports that he was willing to endorse another politician for the presidency in next year&#39;s polls. &quot;Looking at things as they stand now, who do you think is CORD&#39;s most preferred candidate in 2017? Do you think I am a person who steps down for another? Those thinking so should wake up from their sleep,&quot; the ODM leader told mourners during the burial of Fanuel Ochieng at Alego, Siaya County on Saturday. And yesterday, Raila reiterated his position that the Opposition coalition is not shopping around for a presidential flag bearer. &quot;Raila does not intend to go outside CORD to shop for a candidate and will not support a candidate from outside the coalition. He, however, retains his appeal to more politicians and parties to join CORD and vie for the flag-bearer ticket to beat Jubilee next year,&quot; read the statement issued by his spokesman Dennis Onyango. Raila also clarified that his position on the CORD flag bearer in the 2017 elections remains that the candidate must emerge from laid-down procedures that will safeguard the wishes of the coalition&#39;s supporters and its leaders. &quot;While Raila intends to vie for the ticket in the coalition&#39;s primaries, he stands ready to support whoever will emerge the winner in that primary contest. He therefore asks CORD supporters to ignore reports in The Sunday Nation that he has to be the CORD candidate,&quot; added the statement. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;