Kenya&rsquo;s participation in the August 2016 Brazil Olympics almost started on the wrong footing. This followed threats by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) to ban Kenya for failing to comply with doping regulations. Timely intervention, however, assured Kenya&rsquo;s participation. But despite the assurance, it was clear that all was not well within the training camp. Athletes complained of being neglected to the extent of lacking basic needs like training kits which Nike, the official sponsor, had supplied in good time. Nevertheless, though Kenyan athletes gave their best against all odds to emerge sixth overall and the top nation in Africa with 6 gold, 6 bronze and 1 silver medals, all ended on a wrong footing. The chaotic manner of handling Kenya&rsquo;s team in the Olympics saw Sports Cabinet Secretary Hassan Wario disband the National Olympics Committee (NOC) on their return, blaming it for the Brazil fiasco. Even as that action did not address the real issues at hand, it has attracted the wrath of the International Olympics Committee (IOC), which has threatened to ban Kenya unless the ministerial action is reversed and dialogue called to resolve outstanding issues. President Uhuru Kenyatta appears to support Mr Wario&rsquo;s action in disbanding NOC, but it is clear that the government has no jurisdiction over NOC. In essence, this means the Cabinet Secretary&rsquo;s action, and by extension the Government, violated the IOC charter. In any case, Mr Wario acted in haste without going through the due process of the law. While it is not for us to declare the innocence or guilt of the NOC officials, it is inescapable that they were not given a chance to be heard, as it is their democratic right. It is in the interest of our country, sportsmen and women that the Government reconsiders its action and engages IOC and NOC in dialogue to escape a ban. A ban by IOC could easily attract similar action from the International Association Athletics Federations (IAAF), with dire consequences. READ MORE Beautiful Kenya War against fake drugs intensified in Kenya President Uhuru and Msambweni MP in land clash