Hundreds of patients were turned away from the Meru Teaching and Referral Hospital due to the ongoing strike by medical staff. Those who could afford it sought treatment in private hospitals while those who did not have money went home. All the wards, including the intensive care unit and casualty, remained closed as health workers stayed away. Although the chest clinic was open, there were no services available. The situation was the same in all public hospitals. A few Kenya Medical Training College students could be seen walking around the extensive compound. Cleaners were also seen going about their work. Two women in prison warder uniforms were among those who had brought their children for treatment but had to go away as there were no doctors to attend to them. Boniface Kiogora from Gakoromone village had to go back home as there was no doctor available to treat him for a heart condition. READ MORE Nurses protest arrest of two colleagues over patient&rsquo;s death Uasin Gishu Union calls off nurses strike after talks Kakamega nurses to down tools Monday &quot;I have a heart condition and I really needed help but the security asked me to go elsewhere as there were no doctors,&quot; Mr Kiogora said. &quot;I went to a private hospital where they asked for an NHIF (National Health Insurance Fund) card, which I don&#39;t have. That is why I came here,&quot; he added. Meanwhile, the Kenya National Union of Nurses complained that police had not arrested people who attacked them as they demonstrated outside the county government offices on Monday morning. Meru branch chairman Mugambi Bakari said they would march in the streets and outside the county government offices this morning, and asked for police protection. &quot;We want to show our frustration with the county government for ignoring our concerns,&quot; he said. &quot;We have already notified the police and all those concerned of our intended demonstrations and we have also asked the police to protect us from attacks,&quot; Mr Mugambi added. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;