The state of safety and security at the Kisumu Port is on the spot after two incidents that left three dead and two others seriously injured. The facility is said to be in a dire state, with few employees and dilapidated equipment. Most of the ships using the port are also said to be dilapidated and lacking safety equipment on board. Monday, area police in collaboration with fire fighters retrieved two bodies of Tanzanian men who died while attempting to siphon fuel from an oil tanker. The incident occurred barely two weeks after three crew members of the same ship sustained serious injuries after fuel burst into flames. One of them died at the Kenyatta National Hospital in Nairobi. Sources have now attributed the two incidents to neglect at the port, which is the focal point of lake transport between Kenya and her East African neighbours. &ldquo;The facility has had no power for the last four months and it is just a shell. It looks abandoned and if there is no intervention, then we are likely to witness more deaths and injuries,&rdquo; said a casual labourer who sought anonymity. READ MORE Two die while siphoning oil from ship in Kisumu Port Gory details of KNH patient murder laid bare Girl&rsquo;s agony after losing both legs in train accident Fire brigade On Sunday, police were unable to retrieve the bodies of the two Tanzanians because they feared for their safety. The bodies remained in the tanker for another night as police waited for help from the fire brigade. The bodies were retrieved about 15 hours after they were discovered. The fire brigade had a difficult time pulling the bodies out as they were stuck in the engine room, which was filled with fuel fumes. The deceased, who were identified only as Felix and Erick, were crew members of the ill-fated ship. Peter Kotunya, a port worker, revealed to The Standard that Felix had vowed to stop working on the ship because of the accidents they had experienced. &ldquo;After escaping death by a whisker in the fire that broke out on the same ship, he told me he would never work on a ship again,&rdquo; said Mr Kotunya. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;