Political differences between Governor William Kabogo and Senator Kimani Wamatangi played out before a watchdog committee Thursday. Mr Kabogo was appearing before the Senate Public Accounts and Investment Committee to respond to audit queries raised against his administration by Auditor General Edward Ouko when he clashed with Mr Wamatangi over accountability issues raised about expenditure. Wamatangi sought to know why the county government had not submitted to the auditors documents to prove expenditure of various votes relating to the 2013-2014 financial year until he was summoned by the Senate team. He said the Public Audit Act made it an offence for anyone to fail to produce documents to the auditors during the audit process. But before he could finish, Kabogo intervened and accused the senator of introducing their personal differences before the committee. &ldquo;Mr Chairman, I do not want us to go the way Nairobi went. The senator wants us to start our exchanges here when it is obvious that he is playing to the cameras for political reasons. These are the issues I did not want us to get into,&rdquo; said a visibly angry Kabogo while seeking the protection of committee chairman Anyang&rsquo; Nyong&rsquo;o (Kisumu). Committee sessions Kabogo was referring to an incident in which Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero clashed with Senator Mike Sonko, leading to the suspension of the committee&rsquo;s sessions. But a firm Wamatangi, backed by Prof Nyong&rsquo;o, maintained that he had the constitutional responsibility of ensuring that the county government accounted for all the funds it received. &ldquo;What I must firmly do is ensure that on behalf of the residents of Kiambu, I ask all questions relating to accounting documents. The Public Audit Act requires that documents be submitted when requested by auditors,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I will remain firm and I have no apologies to make,&rdquo; he added. The two would clash again after Wamatangi said he wished Kabogo would exercise patience and listen to the questions being asked. The governor took offence at these sentiments. West Pokot Senator John Lonyangapuo told Kabogo that if he had produced the documents required in good time, the audit queries would never have been raised. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;