&nbsp; Russian or Syrian warplanes knocked two hospitals out of service in the besieged rebel sector of Aleppo on Wednesday and ground forces intensified an assault in a battle which the United Nations said had made the city worse than a slaughterhouse. Two patients died in one of the hospitals and other shelling killed six residents queuing for bread under a siege that has trapped 250,000 people with food running out. The week-old assault, which could herald a turning point in the war, has already killed hundreds of people, with bunker-busting bombs bringing down buildings on residents huddled inside. Only about 30 doctors are believed to be left inside the besieged zone, coping with hundreds of wounded a day. &quot;The warplane flew over us and directly started dropping its missiles ... at around 4 a.m.,&quot; Mohammad Abu Rajab, a radiologist at the M10 hospital, the largest trauma hospital in the city&#39;s rebel-held sector, told Reuters. &quot;Rubble fell in on the patients in the intensive care unit.&quot; READ MORE Dortmund 2-2 Real Madrid: Late Schuerrle strike denies Real victory in Dortmund thriller Man City in fight with Real Madrid for Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang Real Madrid coach Zidane brushes off Ronaldo snub M10 hospital workers said oxygen and power generators were destroyed and patients were transferred to another hospital. Photographs sent to Reuters by a hospital worker at the facility showed damaged storage tanks, a rubble strewn area, and the collapsed roof of what he said was a power facility. There were no initial reports of casualties there, but medical charity M&eacute;decins Sans Fronti&egrave;res (MSF) said two patients had been killed at the other hospital, in shelling which took it out of service as well, leaving east Aleppo with only seven doctors in a position to undertake surgery. &ldquo;And this comes at a time when east Aleppo has been under siege since July and is suffering the bloodiest indiscriminate bombing since the beginning of the war,&quot; MSF&#39;s Syria head Carlos Francisco said. The government of President Bashar al-Assad, backed by Russian air power, Iranian ground forces and Shi&#39;ite militia fighters from Iran, Iraq and Lebanon, has launched a massive assault to crush the rebels&#39; last major urban stronghold. Syria&#39;s largest city before the war, Aleppo has been divided for years between government and rebel zones, and would be the biggest strategic prize of the war for Assad and his allies. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;