In a few days, former Prime Minister Raila Odinga had gone from being the supposed shrewd and tactful politician to a fumbling and clumsy agent provocateur. His call for communities to take up arms to force out officials of the much discredited Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) has backfired spectacularly. It clouded the rousing welcome he received in Narok during the burial of former Minister and a former ODM compatriot William ole Ntimama. At that funeral, many touted him as smart and calculating after he stole the show in a meeting attended by two presidents; Daniel Moi and Uhuru Kenyatta. But what prompted Mr Odinga to say what has clearly boomeranged on his face confounds everyone, least of all his critics. In any case, IEBC commissioners were vacating office anyway. Whatever mileage he would get from such tough talk is quickly extinguished by the evocation of 2007/08; one of the low moments for most Kenyans. A political giant of sorts, Mr Odinga&rsquo;s charisma, agility and confidence is enigmatic. Lionised by his supporters and loathed in equal measure by his numerous detractors, self-doubt has never stalked him; he is the quintessential rouble rouser, the gatecrasher. READ MORE IEBC bosses to know their exit package on Monday No agreement yet on IEBC bosses' send-off package Government to start talks on polls team exit perks today In 2007, he proved that a politician could overcome cultural biases by warming to the cockles of the Kalenjins and causing a seismic shift in the politics of the Rift Valley. Yet it is this success that keeps tripping Mr Odinga. Mr Odinga&rsquo;s Achilles heel for so long is his knack to lose the connection with things that really matter, to go off-script nudged on by dyed-in-the-wool supporters. And to never find his way back from such disasters. &ldquo;Raila has no office structure, no discipline in his life or schedule,&rdquo; said former Head of Public Service Sally Kosgei, a former confidant of Mr Odinga. And she should know. Take for example, his stand on the controversial Mau Forest evictions which, for better or for worse, drove the wedge between him and voters in the larger Rift Valley who had fervently supported his bid for the Presidency in 2007. He never recovered from what many considered a slight from one whom they had voted for to the last man and whose contested win precipitated the ignominious 2007/08 Post Election Violence that led to the death of 1,300 people and a vilification of a whole community. As Prime Minister in the Grand Coalition government, Mr Odinga suffered the wrath of his troops who thought of him as playing defender-in-chief of a coalition many felt was not working for them. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;