Former Mombasa politician Salim Ahmed Bamahriz, known for his role in the struggle for multi-party democracy in the early 1990s, is dead Bamahriz, 74, died at the Al Qassimi Hospital in Sharja, United Arab Emirates, on Saturday after a long battle with diabetes, his family in Mombasa announced yesterday He was set to be buried at Sheikh Zayyid in Ajman, Dubai, where he has lived with his family since he left Kenya 10 years ago His young brother, Mohamed Salim, who lives in Yemen said the veteran politician&#39;s left leg was amputated in 2007 as he battled diabetes. He is survived by 10 children and two wives, Fatma and Fatiya Fatma lives in Yemen with her children while Fatiya lives with her children in Dubai. Bamahriz&#39;s siblings and the extended family lives in Mombasa where he was born. &quot;My brother died on Saturday after a long battle with diabetes. He will be remembered for the role he played in Kenya&#39;s second liberation and if there is anyone he may have wronged, I am asking for forgiveness on his behalf,&quot; said Mohamed. READ MORE All about diabetic retinopathy Kilgoris benefits from Safaricom CSR project Simply standing could lower your blood sugar, researchers say Mohamed who was flanked by Bamahriz&#39;s business partner Khalim Salim Omar described the fallen politician as courageous and fearless. Mr Bamahriz joined opposition leaders Jaramogi Oginga Odinga, Kenneth Matiba, Martin Shikuku, Masinde Muliro, Charles Rubia, James Orengo, Gitobu Imanyara and Paul Muite in the fight for multi-party democracy which reached its peak in 1990 and 1991. In Mombasa, Bamahriz who was Miritini Councillor led other civic leaders Liyali Luyai, Makau Nduva, Felix Kaviu and Islamic preacher Sheikh Salim Balala in the struggle which saw him detained. Together with the late Jaramogi, Martin Shikuku,Masinde Muliro (both deceased) and Philip Gachoka and George Nthenge, they founded the original Forum for the Restoration of Democracy in 1990 which later split into Ford Kenya and Ford Asili in 1992. Bamahriz, Shikuku and Gachoka joined Ford Asili led by veteran politician Kenneth Matiba while Muliro joined Ford Kenya. Bamahriz was first detained in 1972 for nine months in Lamu island, Manyani and Kamiti prisons after going against Kanu government. He had fiercely defended the party as a member in 1963 during its war with Kenya National African Democratic Union (Kadu) of Ronald Ngala. He first ventured into leadership when he was elected Changamwe Shopkeepers Association boss in 1969. He later contested the Changamwe parliamentary seat but lost to David Kioko. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;