New Delhi: India said on Thursday it had conducted &quot;surgical strikes&quot; on suspected militants preparing to infiltrate from Pakistan-ruled Kashmir, making its first direct military response to an attack on an army base it blames on Pakistan. The cross-border action inflicted significant casualties, the Indian army&#39;s head of operations told reporters in New Delhi, while a senior government official said Indian soldiers had crossed the border to target militant camps. Pakistan said there had been no such targeted strikes, but some military officers said it had repulsed the Indian troops and returned fire across the Line of Control, the de facto frontier that runs through the disputed Himalayan territory of Kashmir. The Indian announcement followed through on Prime Minister Narendra Modi&#39;s warning that those responsible &quot;would not go unpunished&quot; for a Sept. 18 attack on an Indian army base at Uri, near the frontier, that killed 18 soldiers. The strikes also raised the possibility of a military escalation between nuclear-armed India and Pakistan that would wreck a 2003 Kashmir ceasefire. Lt General Ranbir Singh, the Indian army&#39;s director general of military operations, said the strikes were launched on Wednesday based on &quot;very specific and credible information that some terrorist units had positioned themselves ... with an aim to carry out infiltration and terrorist strikes&quot;. READ MORE Pakistan says two of its soldiers killed in clash with India at Kashmir How to solve Kenya-Somalia maritime border row Kenya, Somalia spat goes to Hague court Singh said he had called his Pakistani counterpart to inform him of the operation. The top spokesman for the Pakistani military slammed the Indian account of its action as &quot;totally baseless and completely a lie&quot;. &quot;We deny it. There is no such thing on the ground. There is just the incident of the firing last night, which we responded to,&quot; Lt General Asim Bajwa told news channel Geo TV. Pakistan said two of its soldiers had been killed and nine wounded in firing across the Line of Control. NO MORE STRATEGIC RESTRAINT The Indian version of events represents a departure from a traditional policy of strategic restraint in the face of what New Delhi sees as cross-border terrorist acts that it believes are sponsored by the Pakistani state. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;