Nairobi&#39;s Eastleigh was once a marvel. The predominantly Somali suburb is among Kenya&#39;s biggest trading centres with over 50 shopping malls. &nbsp;At some point, the conurbation, known as Little Mogadishu, in reference to the Somali capital due to its large ethnic Somali population, was a great attraction that saw major businesses, including hotels, set up in the area. However, this was before hawkers landed. Eastleigh is now a pale shadow of its former self. In fact, it is now a major eyesore as streets have literally been turned into dumpsites. This has been blamed on hawkers who have been accused of littering the streets without a second thought. Shop owners are also complaining that hawkers are killing their businesses by blocking the entrance to their shops. In addition, they say the hawkers are undercutting them because they do not pay taxes. There is no longer anywhere for pedestrians to walk as the hawkers have spread their wares on all the pavements. In some of the worst case, hawkers spread their goods on the roads, endangering theirs and their customers&#39; lives. Fed up with this state of affairs, shop owners went on strike seeking the relocation of hawkers who they also blamed for increased littering along the streets. The protest saw police clear over 20,000 stalls some of the hawkers used, which in turn led to a major confrontation. READ MORE Eastleigh shops closed in weekly protest Eastleigh traders want hawkers gone Police gun down four suspects linked to robberies in Kiambu, Nairobi Efforts by hoteliers to plant flowers in front of their facilities to attract customers have gone to waste. Some said they had also hoped the flowers would ward off the hawkers. However, the situation is even worse as hawkers have turned the same flower beds into dumpsites. A spot check by The Standard yesterday revealed filthy streets. Garbage was all over the place, even in the middle of the road. But some of the hawkers who talked to The Standard to dismissed claims that they were entirely to blame for the filth. &quot;Hawkers are not entirely to blame. A lot of the waste comes from residential areas. There are people who dump waste at night and this is blamed on us,&quot; said Betty Kimoli, who sells vegetables near Califonia estate. She said county workers collected the waste but there were times when garbage was dumped after the workers had left. She also said hawkers were not aware if they were expected to pay for waste collection as the shop owners claimed. The famous &#39;Garage&#39; matatu roundabout is completely impassable, especially in the evening, as hawkers cook and sell food in front of three hotels. On the opposite side of the road, a man is frying fish and behind him is a heap of garbage. The hawker is competing with matatus for space on the road. At some point, a passenger misses the boiling oil in the pan by inches as she alights from a matatu. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;