While Kenya ranks lowly on the human rights record, the practice of democracy and equitable distribution of the national cake according to the latest Mo Ibrahim report on African governance, it is the epitome of the capitalist system of governance. The concept of capitalism may not be so simple, but the long and short of it is that it works for a handful at the expense of the majority. In general terms, capitalism is characterised by private ownership of businesses which, in turn are driven by the quest for profit. Some of the attributes of capitalism include the exploitative wage labour and capital accumulation; a system through which, in most cases, quality becomes a casualty as profits override any other considerations. Experts acknowledge at least three forms of capitalism; State Capitalism, Welfare Capitalism and Free Market Capitalism. Free Market capitalism is described as that form which is free of government interference in terms of regulation and pricing. State Capitalism is the opposite, where the government has its hands in almost everything. On the other hand, Welfare Capitalism takes on board the welfare of workers where free market capitalism does not. Since the advent of Structural Adjustment Programmes and the advocacy for liberalised markets as a condition for accessing World Bank (WB) loans, successive governments had no alternative but to develop a bias for a free market economy. READ MORE World Bank study says inequality narrowing World Bank gives Kenya's economy thumbs up Kenya receives Shs2.5 billion grant to improve healthcare There has been little of state capitalism and even lesser of welfare capitalism; an omission that gives meaning to the existence of trade unions under the auspices of the Central Organisation of Trade Unions. Further, the economic model Kenya adopted, however, did not only evolve into one of the worst forms of capitalism, it bred serious socio-political inequalities. The conditions imposed on poor African and Asian countries left them little room to operate and attempt to regulate markets for fear of reprisals from the WB even where there was need to so. In the end, because SAPs did not create safety nets for, say, those who lost jobs through restructuring, there were repercussions. The negative social effects of SAPs are there for all to see. Homicides, broken marriages, unemployment, heavy taxation and increased cases of crime are just but some of the effects. In other cases, banks, taking advantage of the free market environment, came down heavily on borrowers. While loans should ordinarily improve the lot of the borrower, the opposite has for a long time obtained in Kenya. Not a single one of Kenyans labouring under the weight of bank loans had anything positive to say about banks and the free market economy. That is, until the bill on capping bank interest rates became law. Opinion is divided on the impact of that action on the economy but, economics not being my forte, I leave that to the experts. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;