NARC-Kenya has taken Party of National Unity (PNU) to court over party property and a share of political party millions. The legal battle stems from reports that PNU had dissolved to join Jubilee Party. NARC-Kenya, which is led by former Gichugu MP Martha Karua, claimed PNU could not sell the land where its headquarters stand because both parties co-own it. NARC-Kenya also claims that PNU owes it more than Sh137 million in political party cash from 2011. &quot;The (PNU) secretary general published a notice calling for governing council change from September 9, 2016. Its known assets will dissipate or be assigned to third parties,&quot; read court papers filed by lawyer Charles Kihara. NARC-Kenya said it would incur financial losses if the land was sold as it had invested heavily in it. The PNU was formed by an alliance of seven political parties, among them Narc Kenya, in August 2007 in order to rally for the re-election of retired President Mwai Kibaki. READ MORE Beware, season of deceit with us Singer Bahati&rsquo;s bad showing Big loss to newly formed Jubilee Party as MCAs join KANU On political party funds, Narc Kenya Secretary General Ambrose Nzomo claims PNU met on November 9, 2009, to agree on how to share the money. He said the agreement was that PNU would take 60 per cent of the money and its affiliates would share the rest. In his supporting affidavit, the secretary general claimed that PNU had been holding back the whole amount. Narc Kenya also listed the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, Registrar of Political Parties Lucy Ndung&#39;u and Attorney General Githu Muigai as respondents. &quot;The respondents have to date not made any effort to refund or make amendments... with the fourth respondent (PNU) taking full benefit of all the said monies in its business of engaging in political competition with the petitioner (Narc Kenya) and others,&quot; Mr Nzomo claimed. He said PNU was unjustly enriching itself to the detriment of the smaller parties, which it had formed partnerships with.