&nbsp; Agriculture is the mainstay of our economy. In order to promote agriculture we have to control any living organism that threatens the growth and storage of crops and agricultural produce. A pesticide is any substance used to kill, repel, or control unwanted plant and animal lives. Pesticides include herbicides used for destroying weeds and other unwanted vegetation, insecticides for controlling a wide variety of insects, fungicides used to prevent the growth of moulds and mildew, disinfectants for preventing the spread of bacteria, and compounds used to control mice and rats. Because of the widespread use of agricultural chemicals in food production, people are frequently exposed to these chemicals thereby causing adverse effects that are immediate (acute) or delayed (chronic). We will review different classes of pesticides, beginning with herbicides. Glyphosate is one of the most widely used herbicides. Glyphosate discovered in 1970 by Monsanto trades in Kenya as Roundup, Mamba, weedstop, glyfos among others. It prevents plants from making certain proteins important for normal growth through a pathway that blocks energy production in susceptible plants. Glyphosate is a human poison in its own right but inert ingredients required to formulate this herbicide have been implicated in enhancing glyphosate poisoning. READ MORE Blame your tea for low pay, South Rift farmers told Form Four leaver&rsquo;s love for trees earns him a fortune What is organic livestock farming? This has been supported by a research appearing in the January issue of the journal Chemical Research in Toxicology that linked a surfactant polyethoxylated tallow amine (POEA) with cardiac toxicity. This corroborates a study in Brazil, 2002 which reported that Roundup formulation was more poisonous than the pure glyphosate. Just like any xenobiotic, a glyphosate formulation causes some adverse effects when exposed to humans at sufficiently high amounts. These include: Skin contact during preparation of spray or touching wet plants results in skin irritation. Swallowing may occur after intentional ingestion with suicidal intent or accidentally by young children or eating or smoking after contact without washing hands. Swallowing causes increased saliva burns in the mouth and throat, unpleasant taste in the mouth, nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea. Major organ failure (Kidney, heart and liver) may be precipitated by swallowing huge amounts. Eye contact causes eye irritation that may progress to mild conjunctivitis and superficial corneal injury. People who breathe in spray mist from glyphosate products develop irritation in their nose and throat, and in addition to drowsiness and dizziness. Prolonged exposure harms unborn child and impairs fertility. All pesticide exposures should be managed immediately for a better outcome. First aid may be offered at home. In the case of eyes immediately wash the eyes with clean water for about 15 minutes. Do not put any medication in the victim&rsquo;s eyes without advice from a doctor. If symptoms persist (such as redness or irritation) medical assistance should be sought. For the skin, immediately flood the affected area with soap and water while removing all soiled clothing. If inhaled, move the person to fresh air and keep him or her comfortable to aid breathing. If swallowed, vomiting should not be induced without the advice of a doctor. If the victim is conscious and alert, giving them two glasses of water would help to dilute the chemical. Giving anything by mouth to an unconscious person is dangerous. If symptoms persist, it is important to visit a medical facility immediately. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;