A senior Kisumu County Government official lost property worth millions of shillings yesterday when villagers invaded his home after accusing him of having links with the disappearance of an MCA. The villagers stormed Economic Panning Chief Officer George Anyonga&rsquo;s home in West Kisumu, on the outskirts of the town, burnt his brand new Range Rover Sports Utility Vehicle, a saloon car and a pick up truck as they demanded to know the whereabouts of area MCA Paul Okwiri (pictured below), who is reported to have been kidnapped on Thursday night. A few police officers who rushed to the scene watched helplessly as the protesters went for more petrol at the nearby Daraja Mbili market before proceeding to Mr Anyonga&rsquo;s parents&rsquo; home where they destroyed more property. The incident comes barely a day after MCAs differed during a session at the assembly over a report by an ad hoc committee formed to investigate claims that Sh105 million of the Ward Development Fund had been misused by the executive. The missing MCA is said to have been among those who actively debated on the matter and asked the Speaker to invite the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission officials to launch investigations. The MCAs had demanded that the five signatories to the Fund step aside to allow for investigations. During the heated debate, an MCA accused Mr Okwiri of having a personal interest in the matter, since he had long standing differences with one of the signatories who was under investigation. Okwiri rose to defend himself but was ruled out of order by Speaker Ann Adul. Yesterday, Anyonga watched from a distance as his property went up in flames during the 9 am attack, but did not respond to our telephone calls for an interview. The villagers also blocked the Kisumu-Busia road for several hours during which they stoned and robbed motorists. Attempts by the area chief and police to calm the crowd were futile, as the protesters continued hurling stones at Anyonga&rsquo;s home before breaking the gate to access the compound. Police fired live bullets and teargas in the air several times to disperse the crowd that kept regrouping and throwing stones into Anyonga&rsquo;s compound. Kisumu County Police Commander Titus Yoma said police received reports of the MCA&rsquo;s disappearance yesterday morning and have already launched investigations into his whereabout. Family members said Mr Okwiri failed to return home on Thursday evening and they found his car abandoned outside a neighbour&rsquo;s home yesterday morning. Okoth Hongo, an area resident, said the MCA has always been vocal at the County Assembly. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;