NAIROBI: President Uhuru Kenyatta and retired President Daniel arap Moi are among those who went to condole with the late William ole Ntimama&#39;s family yesterday. President Kenyatta said the Government will ensure the former Cabinet minister gets a befitting send-off. Uhuru described Ntimama as a statesman who served his country and fought for the rights of Maasai community with passion. &quot;We have come here to condole with the family of the late Ntimama, who was not only the head of his family, but a national leader as well. My government will help give him the send-off he deserves,&quot; Uhuru said at the family&#39;s Lavington residence. The President was accompanied by Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery, National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale and National Cohesion and Integration Commission chairman Francis ole Kaparo. Former President Moi who arrived at around noon said Ntimama&#39;s death was a big shock to him. READ MORE Kenya turning a new page in war on graft Kenya should prepare for crisis and economic slowdown after capping interest rates Kenya government protection of fish industry long overdue The former Head of State was accompanied by his son and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, who is also Kanu chairman. Kanu Secretary General Nick Salat was also present. Mr Moi had earlier sent his condolence message in which he pointed out how Ntimama articulated the problems of the minority during his time as Maasai leader. While celebrating his 92nd birthday last week at his Kabarak home, the former president recounted his first meeting with Ntimama in 1955, when he worked as a district officer in Baringo. At the time, Mr Moi was a member of the Legislative Council (Legco), representing the then Rift Valley Province. &quot;The death of William ole Ntimama has shocked me and left me with a profound sense of loss,&quot; Moi had said. Former powerful Cabinet minister Nicholas Biwott eulogised the late Ntimama as an astute leader who loved his people and country. Biwott said he met Ntimama during the colonial time and later served with him in the Cabinet. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;