Three top leaders yesterday emotionally defended their right to hold a meeting of Jubilee aspirants that was boycotted by opponents. Senator Kiraitu Murungi, Woman Representative Florence Kajuju and Igembe South legislator Mithika Linturi, who have a political union named &#39;Kikali&#39; (Kiraitu, Kajuju and Linturi), said they had all rights to convene a meeting of &#39;like-minded&#39; party well-wishers. &quot;Even when the JP structures are laid out through interim appointments by President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto, the mandate of organising party affairs will fall squarely with local leaders,&quot; Mr Linturi said at Thiiri convention centre on the fridges of Meru town. The Meru leaders claimed they only recognise the President and his deputy as officials of the party and no other leader had a right to order them to stop holding such meetings. &quot;Those who claim that they cannot attend this meeting are party outsiders who want to rock the boat, unlike us who have the welfare of the party at heart,&quot; said Mr Murungi. Mr Murungi is eyeing the governor&#39;s seat in next year&#39;s polls and Mr Linturi the senatorial ticket. Ms Kajuju has declared interest to defend her seat. READ MORE Registrar enjoined in case against Jubilee over slogan DP Ruto assures of fair party primaries Luhya leaders set new demand to Jubilee Their rivals, Dr Kilemi Mwiria and Mwenda Mbijjiwe, were among those who boycotted yesterday&#39;s meeting. Yesterday, Mr Linturi said the fact that they called the meeting did not mean that some aspirants were senior or junior to others. They were supported by the Mt Kenya Youth Caucus which said Mr Kiraitu should be accorded due respect for the role he played in the Jubilee merger process. Caucus chairman Linford Mutembei also urged the President and his deputy to hasten the naming of new officials to steer the party to avoid unnecessary friction. Meanwhile, Governor Peter Munya and Devolution Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri yesterday clashed over support for President Kenyatta and dissolution of parties. The Governor, Mr Kiunjuri, Mr Murungi, Mr Linturi,&nbsp; Imenti Central MP Mwiti Irea were at a church fundraiser. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;