Crown Paints has contributed over Sh 1million to support conservation of elephants as the country grapple with the dwindling number of the giant animal due frequent cases of poaching.&nbsp; The number of elephants in the country has plummeted drastically from a population of over 167,000 that was recorded in the 1970s to about 35,000 at present. &nbsp; According to the Kenya Wildlife Service, over 200 elephants are killed yearly across the country for their ivory. Elephant poaching activities in Kenya is driven by a growing demand for ivory in the Asian markets which attract high prices for the illegal commodity.&nbsp; The Paint Company has partnered with the Africans for Elephants Initiative, with an aim of bringing together like-minded individuals and companies to stand up against the rapid decline of the elephant population by contributing to lasting solutions to the human-wildlife conflict and poaching.&nbsp; &ldquo;We need to create a sense of pride and awareness about the importance of elephants as a national heritage&rdquo;, says Akinyi Adongo, founder of the Africans for Elephants Initiative.&nbsp; She made the comments while addressing guests during a black-tie gala event over the weekend at the Village Market, sponsored by Crown Paints, to raise funds for the David Sheldrick Wildlife Trust and The Walk with Rangers Initiative. &nbsp; Crown Paints Chief Executive Officer, Rakesh Rao, called on all communities to learn to co-exist with wildlife due to the significant role it plays in promoting the country&rsquo;s tourism. He said tourism was the second largest source of Kenya&#39;s foreign exchange and there was need to protect wildlife as a national heritage. &nbsp; &ldquo;Visitors come to see our wildlife in the national parks and game reserves and as a country we should pull up our efforts together in conserving this national asset by ensuring that poachers are kept at bay&rdquo; Rao urged. &nbsp; READ MORE Elephant tramples on a 67-year-old grandmother in West Pokot He noted that the partnership with Africans for Elephants Initiative was part of a long term Corporate Social Responsibility Programme to help preserves the country&rsquo;s wildlife heritage and also safeguard all those who earn their livelihoods through the tourism industry. In addition to Ksh 2 million raised at the event towards the cause, Crown Paints also announced that it would donate a percentage of proceeds of sales of its recently launched eco-friendly Zero VOC paints to support the cause. &nbsp; The government is yet to institute a new wildlife and conservation bill which will put in place stiffer penalties for poaching of endangered species. Other organizations supporting the Africans for Elephants Initiative include Ethiopian Airlines, Brew Bistro, English Press, Viva Product Line, Bespoke Events, Waba Mineral Water and Village Market, among others.