NAIVASHA, KENYA: ODM Governors have now given their party leader Raila Odinga the go ahead to seek more coalition partners ahead of the general election. The governors said that they fully supported the move by Raila to seek more parties in a bid to oust the Jubilee government come 2017. This emerged when the over ten governors met Raila in Enashipai Spa in Naivasha to address the party future and nominations plans. During the meeting, the governors expressed their concern over the rules and regulations ahead of the nominations which are expected to be tight. According to a source in the meeting, the governors called on their leader not to take sides but to allow for a smooth nomination exercise. &quot;The governors were concerned over the party nominations but Raila assured them that he would not take sides and would support a free and fair exercise,&quot; said the source. READ MORE CORD likely to name flag-bearer for 2017 early next year Namwamba willing to work with Raila again It's official: Waiguru joins Kirinyaga County gubernatorial race The source added that Raila had played down allegations that he had preferred candidates for the position of governors ahead of the nominations. &quot;Some of the governors were concerned that some of their competitors were bragging that they had Raila&#39;s ear but the former PM downplayed this,&quot; said the source. Addressing the press after the three hour meeting, the party deputy leader Wycliffe Oparanya confirmed that they had discussed the issue of coalition. The Kakamega Governor said that they were keen to seek more partners so that they could go into the elections as a strong team. &quot;The party leader briefed us on the issue of coalition and we are impressed by the work he is done ahead of the coming elections,&quot; he said. Oparanya said that they fully supported efforts by the former PM in seeking leaders from other political parties so that they could go to the elections as a strong team. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;