the Government lost all court battles to block the pension arrears, which have subjected thousands of retired teachers to almost two decades of abject poverty. The Pensions Department said it had received Sh1.5 billion from the National Treasury to jump-start the payment plan, which will be implemented in phases. &quot;We have started paying and I am already processing the first 400 cases. There are some who are getting as high as one million shillings,&quot; Director of Pensions Shem Nyakutu told&nbsp;The Standard. Nyakutu, who was recently arraigned to answer contempt charges over the delays in payment, said about 32,000 former tutors will benefit from the enhanced pension instalments. The Standard&nbsp;saw some of the files that had been brought for final signatures by Mr Nyakutu. The department said it owed Sh16.4 billion to retired teachers and would be seeking additional funds through supplementary budgets to continue with the payments. READ MORE Use social media platforms responsibly Kenya should focus on the right innovations Trump&rsquo;s presidency will benefit Africa Only teachers who retired between July 1, 1998 and 2003 will benefit from the windfall. Those who exited in 2003 stand to receive the fattest cheques from the pensions body. banking problems &quot;Teachers who retired before July 1, 1988, will get nothing. We have some banking problems which we are dealing with,&quot; said Nyakutu. And it is not only retired teachers who are set to enjoy improved pension. The Pensions Department has announced a raft of reforms to bring to an end the frustrations of civil servants, who have to endure a painful wait before receiving their dues. The contributory civil servants pension scheme will start next year, as Government moves to share the ballooning pension bill with civil servants. Under the new scheme, Government employees will from next July pay 7.5 per cent of their salary to the pension fund. The State will contribute a similar amount, bringing their total pension contributions per month to 15 per cent of their total salary, comparable to the practice in the&nbsp; private sector and some moneyed parastatals. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;