Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua was in the county to popularise his Mandeleo Chap Chap Movement. The county chief, who is on a mission to out-manoeuver Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka as the Kamba political kingpin, said campaigns to popularise Maendeleo Chap Chap in other regions began in Kisii before heading for Kericho. He will be in Nakuru County today (Friday). &ldquo;The party is receiving overwhelming support. We are going to take it all over the country and our aim is to ensure that all the development projects being implemented by my administration and other success stories in every part of the country are duplicated and implemented countrywide,&rdquo; Dr Mutua said. Different ideologies But his host, Governor Paul Chepkwony, who rode to power on a United Republican Party ticket, said he was in Jubilee Party to stay. &ldquo;Kericho and Machakos began a bench-marking programme. When politics are put aside, governors who have very different ideologies can work together and learn from each other on the development front,&rdquo; said Mr Chepkwony. READ MORE Drama unfolds as Muthama, Mutua clash Governor Alfred Mutua launches movement Six murdered guards to be buried today Chepkwony said they had identified various areas of mutual co-operation such as roads, health, agriculture and environment conservation. Kericho donated 50,000 indigenous tree seedlings for planting in the semi-arid Machakos County. &ldquo;The only partnership that we will seek and enter into is with a party whose focus is to end hunger, unemployment and illiteracy among other issues bedevilling Kenyans across the country,&rdquo; Mutua added. The Machakos governor said his vision was to be the kind of a leader whose conscience would not allow him to rest while Kenyans wallowed in poverty, disease and ignorance. &ldquo;One of the most crucial things the country must do is emphasise education. I am not intimidated by anyone or new ideas,&rdquo; he said. The Machakos boss, who is one of the most highly-rated governors in the country, said some counties were being pulled behind by semi-literate senators and other county leaders who don&rsquo;t understand the urgency in implementing development projects.