Security officers blocked a man claiming to be the son of William Ole Ntimama from accessing his Motonyi home during the funeral, yesterday. George Kariuki Njoroge alias George Kariuki Ntimama was barred by hawk-eyed security officers as he attempted to enter the venue alongside thousands of mourners. Mr Kariuki who was accompanied by a lady who identified herself as Rose Odhiambo were stopped by police officers who were manning the entry points to the funeral venue. &quot;This is my father and I want the world to see the kind of injustice they (family) are perpetrating. I have a right to attend the funeral of a man I know to be my father but as you see, the police have barred us from accessing the venue,&quot; he told the Press. Mr Kariuki had last week moved to court seeking orders to stop the funeral on claims that he was a biological son to the fallen Maasai kingpin. His efforts did not yield fruits. He submitted before court that Ntimama&#39;s family had refused to recognise him or allow him to participate in funeral preparations. READ MORE Narok library defines Ntimama's legacy Do facility-based births improve maternal healthcare? Raila: Table TJRC report to honour Ntimama's memory Mr Kariuki had also asked the court to give an order stopping Ntimama&#39;s widow, Dorcas Pedelei, or any other person from collecting the body from Lee Funeral Home until a DNA test was done to ascertain his paternity. However, the court dismissed his pleas and questioned why he had taken long to raise the paternity issue in court. Ms Odhiambo, who claimed to be Kariuki&#39;s mother, castigated the security officers for stopping them from accessing the funeral saying the police were acting unfairly. &quot;I want to make this statement to those people who sire children outside marriage. We have a right to attend this funeral. This is unfair and unjust,&quot; she said. The close the two came to the funeral was along the main road where they could only watch the ceremony and listen to tributes from the family members, which were beamed on giant TV screens outside the huge tents erected inside his farm. Mourners and boda boda riders who milled around the two could not stop taking pictures as it became apparent they were not getting into the well-guarded venue. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;