A defiant Governor Jackson Mandago of Uasin Gishu County landed in Eldoret to a rousing welcome after recording a statement with the police in Nairobi. Eldoret town came to a standstill as residents flocked Oginga Odinga Street to catch a glimpse of the governor&rsquo;s motorcade as it made its way from Eldoret International Airport. The residents had waited for hours after word went round that the governor was expected. Addressing the residents, Mr Mandago took a swipe at Cabinet secretaries whom he accused of not performing their duties well. He specifically singled out Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang&rsquo;i and his internal security counterpart Joseph Nkaissery, whom he accused of abdicating responsibilities on matters affecting the public. He called on Mr Nkaissery to focus on the growing insecurity across the country. READ MORE Demo as police quiz leaders on Moi University row Bridge Schools in recruitment drive of TSC certified teachers We are not tribal, Governors Mandago, Tolgos state Citizens&rsquo; wishes &ldquo;We are concerned about those CSs led by Dr Matiang&rsquo;i who have said they will not talk to political leaders. They need to be told that they should not run away from their responsibilities that are crucial to the public whom we represent,&rdquo; he said. He also singled out the Agriculture and Roads ministers. Mandago asked Willy Bett (Agriculture) to revise maize producer prices to cushion farmers whom he said had challenges in the sector. &ldquo;The CS should ensure that maize prices rise from Sh2,300 to Sh3,000 per bag because farmers have suffered a lot due to crop diseases that are likely to prevent them from having a bumper harvest this year,&rdquo; he added. The governor said appointees to the Cabinet needed to be picked from among those who had sought elective positions, saying they understood the wishes of citizens and how to address them. &ldquo;It is evident that former politicians led by Devolution CS Mwangi Kiunjuri and Charles Keter (Energy) have performed exemplarily well compared to the likes of Matiang&rsquo;i. Schools have been burning and right now, institutions across the country are staging demonstrations,&rdquo; said Mandago. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;