Nairobi County government has recalled all medical personnel currently on leave as a doctors strike enters its sixth day. The doctors have been on strike since Sunday, demanding that intern doctors be employed on permanent terms. They are also protesting against delayed salaries and promotions. Addressing the press in Nairobi, Nairobi County Health Executive, Bernard Muia, said the on-going doctors strike was unjustified because the county government had already addressed most of the doctor&#39;s concerns. The executive added that the issue on payment had already been sorted out following a September 9 meeting and that pending payments will be remitted at the end of the month together with their salary. He said that all county medical consultants have been re-deployed to ensure that health services are not interrupted by the strike. READ MORE Nurses are the backbone of Kenya&rsquo;s health system but remain neglected Doctors' strike goes on despite court order &quot;Clinical officers are manning both outpatient facilities and hospital wards to prevent a stall in service delivery. The doctors on strike should resume work or we will take disciplinary action,&quot; he said. However, doctors&#39; union Secretary General, Ouma Oluga, denied that the county government had addressed the striking medic&#39;s grievances. He said that the health workers had not been paid for the last six months, adding that the County government had stalled on the remittance of National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) deductions since January. &quot;We&#39;ve tried to use diplomatic means to solve these problems, in fact we have held five meetings with the county and written several letters since April but no action has been taken by the county,&quot; he said. Olunga clarified that 56 doctors were on strike, and not 53 as indicated, and that they had been on probation for the last two years contrary to medical procedure. A spot-check by The Standard at Kenyatta National Hospital revealed that the facility was more congested than usual as a result of the strike. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;