&nbsp; SIAYA: Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party leader Raila Odinga&rsquo;s political ally Jakoyo Midiwo was Monday attacked as political violence reared its ugly head in Siaya County. &nbsp; Mr Midiwo (Gem MP) escaped narrowly when youths armed with crude weapons attacked his convoy, injuring one of his aides and smashing his car&rsquo;s windscreen. Midiwo and Siaya gubernatorial aspirants William Oduol and Nicholas Gumbo, who is also Rarieda MP, were heading to Usinga ward to address residents over the standoff between Dominion Farms, an American firm involved in large-scale farming at the Yala Swamp, and the locals when the goons struck. Midiwo had accused the county government of failing to account for Sh70 million that was paid by Godavari, investors from India. READ MORE Maasai elders slaughter special bull ahead of Ntimama's burial Maintain unity, Raila tells Maasai Raila must repackage himself as political landscape is jolted The company has entered into a lease agreement with the&nbsp; county government and is set to use the swamp for horticultural farming. The MP has opposed Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga&#39;s re-election, claiming he has integrity issues and should not be cleared by ODM. Midiwo&nbsp;and his colleagues had just left St Peters Anglican Church after a fundraiser and started his tour of Alego Usonga in Nyadorera. But before they could address the already gathered crowd in the market, young men emerged out of the blue wielding rungus, machetes and big stones. &quot;We do not want you here! You cannot keep on disturbing the governor over issues that you do not understand. Where have you been since 2008 when controversy first erupted over Yala Swamp? Kindly leave us alone,&quot; shouted one of the youths who appeared to be their leader. He added: &quot;Go and help Opposition leader Raila Odinga in Nairobi and let go of county politics! Do not come to our sub-county to tell us what is right or wrong. Keep off our governor.&quot; GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;