President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto&rsquo;s allies in Nairobi have split into two camps over the city governorship race. There are sharp differences between the two camps that threaten to scuttle Jubilee&rsquo;s bid to unseat the Coalition for Reforms and Democracy&rsquo;s (CORD) Governor Evans Kidero. Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko, Dagoretti South MP Dennis Waweru and The National Alliance (TNA) Chairman&nbsp;Johnson Sakaja are in one camp that is said to have State House blessings. The other camp comprises Water Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa, former Starehe MP Margaret Wanjiru and Woman Representative Rachel Shebesh, who are said to have the Deputy President&rsquo;s support. Waweru and Sakaja will run for Nairobi Senate and deputy governor slots under the new political alliance tag-named &ldquo;Team Nairobi&rdquo;. Speaking in Nairobi after attending a funeral service, the duo said they had sacrificed their individual political ambitions with the sole goal of defeating Dr Kidero. READ MORE Kenya Re net profit rises to Sh1.56 billion Hotels in Nairobi reap big from Japan-Africa talks UoN Dynamites blow their way to top of NBA league &ldquo;One of us will be the Nairobi governor, another Nairobi senator and deputy governor,&rdquo; said Sakaja. Waweru said details of their line-up will soon be made public and the three of them had promised to back whoever will be picked for the gubernatorial seat. But sources within their circles point to a likelihood of Waweru and Sakaja running for governor and deputy, with Nairobi senator Mike Sonko defending his current seat. The differences between the camps are slowly turning ugly and point to a looming titanic battle among the Jubilee aspirants over the coalition&rsquo;s ticket. On Saturday, Sonko stormed a meeting convened by Wamalwa and Wanjiru in Dandora, forcing the two to cut short their political rally. The same ugly scene was replicated on Sunday at Nairobi&rsquo;s City Stadium when the two leaders, who have announced plans to forge an alliance, were forced to scamper for safety after pro-Sonko youths stormed the event, also attended by Ms Shebesh. Sources privy to the ongoing political realignment within Jubilee hinted the leaders aligned to one side of the coalition are against the candidature of a Mt Kenya-leaning candidate for the Nairobi seat since Uhuru will be defending his seat. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;