The Nubian community, which was welcomed by Nabongo Mumia in Mumias, Kakamega County in 1884, has been &quot;landless&quot; ever since. The Nubians are living in abject poverty due to an endless land tussle. The Kingdom allowed the community to live on a 3.8 acre parcel in the area. Nubian community in Mumias chairman Hassan Abas said they have been living with conflicts ever since. &quot;We do not want to continue living in poverty when we can benefit from the Government and non-governmental organisations. We welcome projects that can be of benefit to us,&quot; he said. Abdalla Ali, an elder and community trustee, said their forefathers came as a family of 32 members and were allocated land at Manyatta before being evacuated to Lumino in 1936. READ MORE Africa must manage land efficiently Nyeri man charged with forging papers to sell family land Relief for Malakisi residents as county leaders issue title deeds He said in April 21, 1967, they acquired a 3.8 hectares parcel at South Wanga Ekero. In 1994, the Mumias Town Council advertised town plots and they applied for them. &quot;During the allocation of the plots, most of these residents of Mjini, Nubian and Arabuni squatters were not allocated. When the allotment letters were given out, we were surprised to learn that we were not included in the list that went to Nairobi (Ardhi House) for allocation,&quot; Mr Ali said. In 1995, they checked with the council clerk to see why they were not included in the list. A delegation of six people went to see the then Provincial Commissioner Mohammed Yusuf Haji for complain. &quot;After a series of meetings with the provincial physical planning officer, the district evaluation officer, provincial local government officer, district surveyor, district physical planning officer and district lands officer, it was resolved that all plots which were allocated in the areas where squatters are living be nullified immediately and be allocated to genuine squatters,&quot; he explained. He added: &quot;We are poor and depend on the land. Our ancestors occupied the land since 1930s and our children and great grandchildren have been occupying the land. We would like to be recognised as the lawful owners.&quot; GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;