KENYA: A woman who disappeared from her matrimonial home for 28 years lost a bid to bury her husband. Hellen Akello had vanished from Tobias Ayoki&rsquo;s home in 1961, just three years after their marriage, after falling out with her co-wife, Mary Awino. She, however, returned 28 years later in 1989 to find that her husband had married two other wives &mdash; Rosemary and Phoebe &mdash; and that Mary, the co-wife who made her walk out of the marriage had since become the first wife. The husband built houses for the three wives at Rakoro village in Gobei, away from his other home at Okela village, Kisumu County. Before his death, Mr Ayoki had given instructions to be buried at Rakoro village.&nbsp; The instructions were witnessed by a family gathering (that Hellen did not attend) and minutes recorded. READ MORE Burial delayed for 16 months as two women fight for man's body Woman stopped from burying her son on &lsquo;husband&rsquo;s land&rsquo; in Nakuru Body of a man still in Kisumu mortuary 7 months later However, upon his death in November 21, 2007, Rosemary, Phoebe and Hellen went to court to protest against the decision by Mary&nbsp; to&nbsp; bury their husband in Rakoro village. The court ruled in their favour in August 1, 2007, but Mary and her son&nbsp; appealed on grounds that Hellen, the alleged first wife, was not recognised as the deceased&rsquo;s dully married wife adding that he had not even built a house for her as custom demands. It was said that upon her return, Hellen&rsquo;s house was built by the area Anglican Church. Her lawyer, however, argued that the house was built by the deceased, and that the church only blessed it. Mary&rsquo;s lawyer argued that upon Hellen&rsquo;s departure, she had gotten married to another man. &ldquo;It would have been a taboo for Tobias to build a house for her in such circumstances,&rdquo; the lawyer argued. The deceased, he said, had also pointed a spot at Goibei to his eldest son John Ombok Ayoki where he wished to be laid to rest, showed other relatives and close friends the same spot and expressed his intention as well. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;