CORD leader Raila Odinga has dismissed media reports that the coalition was likely to split. He said the coalition co-principals &mdash; himself, Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula &mdash; would remain united and that one of them will be the country&rsquo;s fifth President after the 2017 General Election. Raila announced that CORD affiliate parties &mdash; ODM, Wiper Democratic Movement and Ford Kenya &mdash; will each work to strengthen their outfits and later agree on a candidate to face President Uhuru Kenyatta in the polls. Speaking at Kirembe grounds in Kisumu yesterday during celebrations to mark ODM&rsquo;s tenth anniversary, the party leader allayed fears that he was contemplating going it alone in the elections. &ldquo;Our unity is still intact and nobody should mistake our current separate rallies to mean disunity,&rdquo; Raila told the huge crowd. He was accompanied by deputy party leader Hassan Joho, chairman John Mbadi and secretary general Agnes Zani, five governors, senators, MPs and Members of County Assemblies from Nyanza and Western. He denied reports that appeared in sections of the media (not The Standard) to the effect that he had hinted during his tour of Narok County on Friday that he was contemplating going it alone. &ldquo;I want to make it clear that CORD is like a big homestead with many houses. We have Wiper, Ford-Kenya and ODM, all under one strong alliance. We belong to this home but each child belongs to his or her house. We all share the same sitting room with a universal vision,&rdquo; said Raila. He added: &ldquo;ODM will go full throttle to strengthen itself, the same with Wiper and Ford-Kenya. We shall then come together and pick one single flag bearer to face the opponent. CORD is enjoying rock solid support and the coalition leaders enjoy a mutual relationship.&rdquo; Raila declared that the co-principals will do everything possible to unite CORD members so that together they can ride on their new-found slogan &ldquo;Forward Together&rdquo; to defeat Jubilee in the elections. He received three MPs who had decamped from ODM and were elected on different party tickets in the 2013 elections. They were James Onyango K&rsquo;Oyoo of Muhoroni (PDP), Olago Aluoch of Kisumu Town West and Jared K&rsquo;Opiyo of Awendo, both elected on Ford Kenya tickets. &ldquo;The prices of the basic commodities have risen to unprecedented levels and many people are not able to cope with biting inflation. We can only change this when we unite and vote ODM into power,&rdquo; said Raila. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;