Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero&#39;s rigging plot claims have lifted the lid on growing anxiety in major political parties about primary elections. A host of MPs have admitted that some of them may be forced to run as independent candidates or join small political outfits ahead of the 2017 General Election if their parties fail to commit to having free and fair party nominations. The need to have the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) manage party primaries has been heightened by a clause in the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill 2016 that bars party hopping. The Bill signed into law by President Uhuru Kenyatta on Wednesday requires political parties to submit lists of aspirants two weeks before nominations. And once the list is submitted, aspirants are barred from seeking alternative party tickets if defeated. Politicians from both Jubilee and CORD said it was only by committing to engage IEBC that top party organs could allay fears of rigging among aspirants. The leaders said that after pushing for the passage of the law barring politicians from party hopping, it would only be fair that top party organs ensured proper systems to prevent rigging at the nomination stage. READ MORE Why Governor Joho should take ODM&rsquo;s leadership President Uhuru, Opposition leader Raila political rivalry plays out during Ntimama's burial Concern as leaders of dissolved parties miss Jubilee seats Senate Deputy Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen, MPs Shakeel Shabbir (Kisumu East), Onyango K&#39;Oyoo (Muhoroni), Olago Aluoch (Kisumu West), James Rege (Karachuonyo) and William Cheptumo (Baringo North) said it would only be fair for parties to have proper mechanisms to ensure credible primaries. On Wednesday, Dr Kidero wrote a protest letter to ODM leader Raila Odinga and other top party officials about claims that ODM Director of Elections Junet Mohammed had sworn the Orange party would deny him a certificate to defend his Nairobi seat. And ODM chairman John Mbadi yesterday said the party&#39;s top leadership would meet to deliberate over the letter. &quot;The party leadership will meet to consider the letter. If the allegations are true, then it is unfortunate but I just want to repeat that party officials have no role to play in the party primaries. This is the exclusive responsibility of the elections board, which is independent,&quot; said Mr Mbadi. But Mr Shabbir, Mr Rege, Mr Olago and Mr K&#39;Oyoo said the incident was not isolated as they claimed that some of the party officials had been going around Nyanza asking for money to guarantee the party ticket. &quot;The complaint by Kidero must not be brushed away but be addressed by the party&#39;s top leadership. It should also be noted it is not just coming from Mr Mohammed but also from other party officials,&quot; said Olango, who contested on a Ford Kenya ticket in 2013 after he lost on an ODM ticket. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;