Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi has dismissed the pompous launch of Jubilee Party, terming it pure extravagance and waste of resources. The former Deputy Prime Minister also told the JP leaders to brace for a tough political duel come 2017. Speaking at Ololung&rsquo;a in Narok South during the burial of former Lugari MP Cyrus Jirongo&rsquo;s father in-law, Stephen Pertet&rsquo;s, Mudavadi: &ldquo;Let us not be threatened by the launch. It is just an event. The launch does not vote, but it is upon the electorate to decide when the time comes,&rdquo; said Mudavadi. He said ANC is committed to uniting all Kenyan regardless of tribe and party affiliations and that is why they have not dissolved their affiliate parties. Mudavadi is now urging the Maasai community to join ANC to enable them form a stronger force that may earn them victory. &ldquo;The Luhya community is &lsquo;solid&rsquo; and we are ready and willing to support each other ascend to power,&rdquo; he said. READ MORE Song, dance and hugs as merger baby is born to Jubilee Party Raila must repackage himself as political landscape is jolted Polls shouldn't be a matter of shock and awe tactics He also condemned the approval of the anti-party hopping Bill, which he said will interfere with Kenyans&rsquo; democratic rights. He was accompanied by Vihiga Senator George Khaniri and former National Assembly Speaker Kenneth Marende, who echoed his sentiments and called for unity ahead of 2017. Khaniri said the Luhya community is united in its endevour to serve Kenyans and dispelled rumours that their relations are strained saying, &ldquo;As a community, we are united. We have also vowed to support one of our own for the presidency. We will tour the country to seek votes for one of own. Be it Musalia, Jirongo or Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula,&rdquo; said Khaniri. The Vihiga Senator also opposed JP launch saying that the over Sh500 million spent should have been used to address challenges bedeviling Kenyans. &nbsp;Marende on the other hand revealed that he will be running for the Nairobi gubernatorial post United Democratic Party&nbsp; arguing that his record as a lawyer, an MP and Speaker speaks for itself. He said, if elected, he will restore city&rsquo;s lost glory as the &lsquo;Clean City under the sun&rsquo;. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;