The head of criminal investigations has dismissed claims that the password of a suspended National Youth Service (NYS) official was hacked to facilitate the loss of millions. Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) boss Ndegwa Muhoro&nbsp;yesterday told members of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC), who are probing the loss of Sh791 million from NYS, that the Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS) was tamper-proof. Former Deputy Director General of NYS Adan Harakhe, who is being investigated concerning the scam, has been categorical that his IFMIS password was hacked and his account used to approve 18 transactions. Appearing before the same watchdog committee last week, Mr Harakhe maintained that the IFMIS system was hacked into and questionable payments approved without his consent. &quot;The issue about a hacked password is not true. An independent consultant was engaged to audit the system and it was established that it was tamper-proof. The system has been given adequate and robust security,&quot; said Mr Muhoro. &quot;The probability of compromise of the IFMIS system applications and databases is virtually impossible in the context of stolen user credentials,&quot; said the DCI boss, who was accompanied by other detectives. READ MORE MPs demand probe on Kenya Airways in heated debate Zimbabwe losing $1 billion a year to corruption: report Kenya MPs question suspicious cash transfers at NYS Muhoro disclosed that the analysis of the former NYS boss by computer officials from the Cyber Crime Unit established no indication of failed attempts of users to log into the system using his password from different sites, which is common with hackers. The DCI director told the lawmakers that investigations by his team established that&nbsp;Harakhe may have played a role in the scam and his name was forwarded to the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) for action, alongside other suspects. But according to Muhoro, the DPP did not press charges against Harakhe even after he recommended his prosecution. Instead, the former NYS boss was used as a witness in the multi-million shilling scam that led to the resignation of Devolution Cabinet Secretary Anne Waiguru. During the session led by the committee&#39;s vice chairman, Jackson Rop (Kipkelion West) and Kanini Kega (Kieni), the MPs wondered why Harakhe had been accorded preferential treatment compared to other suspects. &quot;Why did the DPP treat him with kid gloves? What are the reasons he gave for his decision to absolve him from blame?&quot; asked Mr Rop. But Muhoro chose not to be dragged into the matter, pointing out that he could not speak on behalf of DPP Keriako Tobiko and emphasising that his recommendation for prosecution was based on evidence and facts. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;