Flight data from the police helicopter that crashed in Mathare, Nairobi has been sent to the US for independent analysis to establish the cause of the crash. It has also emerged that Kenya paid Sh1.4 billion to buy the Augusta 139 chopper that crashed on September 8. Four investigators from the Italian manufacturer AugustaWestland visited the scene of the accident a week after the crash and collected data before interrogating four people who were on board the chopper. Those on board were two police pilots Inspector Martin Ndungu and Inspector Dennis Oduk, Constable Michael Mutwota and Engineer Mandip Oshan seconded to the Kenya Police Service by the Italian manufacturer. The data obtained from the chopper shows the pilots panicked when they spotted a marabou stork bird fly near the helicopter. Oduk was reportedly the captain at the time of the accident at 4.14pm. READ MORE TNT traces on EgyptAir plane debris split investigators Light aircraft with two on board crash-lands in Malindi Light aircraft crashes in Kibiku, two injured After compiling their preliminary findings, the team handed it to the director and chief investigator of aircraft accidents Martyne Lunani before leaving on Saturday. Those privy to the findings say the report seems to attribute the accident to pilot error. &quot;But that is just preliminary investigation and there is an objection from other parties because those on board were qualified pilots. That is why we are waiting for the formation of the commission and will send the data to the US for an independent analysis,&quot; said a source who asked not to be named. Lunani has handed over the report to Transport CS James Macharia and is waiting for him to gazette a commission of inquiry, at the request of Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery, before he acts on the findings. The commission will, among other things, check on the flight condition when the chopper crashed, and pilots&#39; competence.&nbsp; Six police helicopters have crashed over the past two months, not only prompting questions on the state of the helicopters in Kenya, but also casting doubt on the country&#39;s training regimen. Official flight data from accident scenes shows that most crashes have been due to pilot error. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;