The Jubilee Party has upped the stakes&nbsp;ahead of its official launch, with 35 elected&nbsp;Opposition MPs expected to join the&nbsp;new outfit. Five governors elected on parties affiliated&nbsp;to Opposition CORD are also set&nbsp;to decamp during the Saturday launch of the new party, according to Leader of&nbsp;Majority in the National Assembly Aden&nbsp;Duale. He revealed that the list of defectors includes county speakers keen on dumping the Opposition and joining the new party during its national delegates conference (NDC) in Nairobi this weekend. &quot;We will have about five governors and 35 MPs from the CORD coalition and other smaller parties who will join us. The launch will be the beginning of a united Kenya,&quot; said Duale. &quot;We want to ensure Jubilee Party belongs to all Kenyans and that it does not discriminate,&quot; he added. Parties affiliated to Jubilee are expected to dissolve and merge into one ahead of the next General Election. However, at least four parties have resisted dissolution with some members lodging petitions with the Political Parties Tribunal&nbsp;(see separate story). READ MORE Strive to slay the dragon of tribalism in Kenya Why deputy governors in Kenya need clear roles Headache for Uhuru and Ruto as scramble for top party posts starts The reports of defectors yesterday came in the wake of sustained trips by President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy, William Ruto, to CORD-dominated areas, in what is seen as a charm offensive to eat into Opposition support. The Opposition, which has dismissed the merger, has responded by launching its own effort to protect its turf, with Opposition leader Raila Odinga making forays into his traditional bases to shore up support. Although the full list of MPs expected to defect to Jubilee was not immediately available, it was expected that rebel Kilifi North MP Gideon Mung&#39;aro (ODM) will be among them. Others are from Rift Valley, North Eastern, Coast, Kisii and Western regions, according to Duale. Mung&#39;aro, a former Opposition chief whip, has been openly cavorting with the government. Opposition governors expected at the launch are Salim Mvurya (Kwale), Ukur Yattani (Marsabit) and Hussein Dado (Tana River), according to sources in Jubilee. The sources said the new party also expected to receive Lamu Governor Issa Timamy (UDF) and West Pokot&#39;s Simon Kachapin (Kanu). Mvurya announced last week that he was willing to work with Jubilee, but did not explicitly announce his defection. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;