The National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC) wants the Government to freeze funds for public institutions that lack ethnic diversity in their staffing. In a new radical proposal, NCIC plans to work with the Commission for Revenue Allocation (CRA) and Treasury to have funding for counties also pegged on ethnic diversity in their staffing. &quot;We have recommended to the CRA that the allocation formula of funds to counties should take into consideration ethnic diversity. This will see counties that lack ethnic diversity in their public service lose a percentage of the funds,&quot; said Commissioner Gitile Naituli. Prof Naituli said surveys conducted by NCIC revealed that only 17 out of 47 counties had complied with the NCIC Act 2008 that stipulates rules on ethnic diversity in staffing. The proposals are aimed at improving ethnic diversity in counties, which have been flagged for ethnic imbalance and tribal appointments. He added that the surveys had further revealed a worrying trends in public universities, with some employing 90 per cent of staff from one community. READ MORE Kenyan universities have lost the edge Tension in Transmara after unknown arsonists burn 10 houses URP vision was to build a united Kenya &quot;It is wrong that universities have become centres of ethnic balkanisation. As centres of national cohesion, they are supposed to be managed by academics,&quot; he said. He said the commission has proposed to the Ministry of Education that vice chancellors should be appointed from outside the regions where the institutions are located to reduce ethnic imbalance. Commissioner Roba Sharamo blamed ethnic imbalance in county staffing on devolution. &quot;Our research has shown that the ethnic imbalance in counties came from staff absorbed from local authorities. We have done the audit and hope to pass the reports to the Senate for implementation,&quot; he said. The commission promised to release a report that will reveal the sad extent of ethnic staffing imbalances in the public service both at county and national level.