NAIROBI: Elected on the promise of transformation and inaugurated on the backdrop of history as the first government under the new Constitution, Jubilee took the reins of a highly expectant nation. Three years and four months later, the expectation has been vindicated by a diverse array of achievements and immense works in progress. The Jubilee administration has repaid the trust and faith of the Kenyan people with an unwavering commitment to the economic transformation of the land. One of the biggest and unsung achievements of this administration is our full-throttle support for devolution. In every budget cycle since inauguration, we have gone above and beyond the constitutional threshold in county allocations and every year we raise the allocation so that Kenyans can feel the transformation at the grassroots level. In the 2013-14 financial year, the national government disbursed Sh210 billion, 2014-15 Sh239 billion, 2015-16 Sh285 billion and 2016-17 Sh301 billion. This includes conditional grants. But our support for devolution is not just financial. We supplement the money with technical and programme support in key sectors such as health and education. Every county now has a facility equipped with modern hi-tech medical equipment to treat heart, kidney and other chronic conditions as well as cancer screening and therapy. Infrastructure is at the heart of the Jubilee transformation agenda: roads, railways, ports and harbours, airports, pipelines and fibre-optic lines are being constructed, rolled out and laid all over our republic to make us a more connected economy internally and with our neighbours in the region. READ MORE Kalonzo: My bid is a call for a Kenyan renaissance Why Raila wants new voter register before polls Questions still linger on election results transmission This investment in infrastructure is fundamental to the vision of transformation. It is the basis for national socio-economic take-off. It is how we achieve and sustain double-digit economic growth. CROWN JEWEL The standard gauge railway (SGR) is the crown jewel of these investments. SGR will create a new dimension for commerce and industry. Today a boogie (freight train) carries 20 containers and travels at 20km per hour. With SGR a boogie will carry 200 twenty-foot containers and travel at 120km per hour. The difference is exponential and not just for Kenya but across the region. It will help us cement our position as a regional leader and the regional central logistics hub. All that plus 12,000 jobs for Kenyans. But the railway is not enough which is why we are expanding the port and seeking to build 10,000km of new roads. At the port we have increased the capacity by five million tonnes from 22 million to 27,000 million. At this moment we have paved 3,658, an additional 706km. A total of 1,563km of low volume roads has been laid while 2,500km will start before the end of the year. National highways have seen 1,420km of tarmac laid. The Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) has witnessed a huge facelift, which has pushed its capacity from 2.5 million passengers in 2013 to 7.5 million per year. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;