President Uhuru Kenyatta today ordered a freeze in the establishment of new universities to give focus on strengthening existing institutions as well as providing more technical and vocational training. The President issued the directive after awarding charters to eight new universities at a ceremony held at State House, Nairobi. A ninth university, Garissa University, was initially planned to be among the institutions getting their charter today, but President Kenyatta said he would personally travel to Garissa to deliver the certification. The President said his decision on Garissa University is to send a loud message that Kenya will never succumb to the threats of terrorism. The eight new universities that were awarded charters were KAG East University in Kajiado County, Rongo University in Migori County, the Cooperative University of Kenya in Nairobi County and Taita Taveta University in Taita-Taveta County. The others were Murang&rsquo;a University of Technology in Murang&rsquo;a County, University of Embu in Embu County, Machakos University in Machakos County and Kirinyaga University in Kirinyaga County. READ MORE UhuRuto to name Jubilee Party officials at another grand fete Jubilee Party challenged to name officials IEBC commissioners issue resignation notice to President Uhuru The President also witnessed the installation of Chancellors of the new universities as part of the elaborate ceremony of award of charters. The chancellors are Mr Fred Ojiambo (Kirinyaga University), Hon Joseph Nyaga (Cooperative University), Prof Mohamed Y Elmi (Rongo University), Hon Dr Sally Kosgei (Taita-Taveta University), Mr James Mworia (Machakos University), Prof Musili Wambua (Embu University), Dr Philista Onyango&nbsp; and Rev Dr Peter Njiiri (KAG East University). &ldquo;Our focus now must be strengthening the institutions that we have; building their resilience and ensuring sustained quality,&rdquo; said President Kenyatta. The President said the Government will also focus on developing the necessary job skills needed for Kenya to meet the objectives of the Vision 2030. &nbsp;&ldquo;We are determined to deliver on vocational training, through our Technical and Vocational Training Institutions (TVETS) and other programmes to deliver on skills required to grow our country in terms of Vision 2030,&rdquo; he said. He also cautioned those in charge of the new universities to guard against tribalism and to uphold national values. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;