KISII: A woman and her grandson were among three people who died Sunday in an accident after a truck rammed on three motorcyclists along Kisii-Kisumu road. Jored Nyangaresi, a Kisii University student who was three months away from his graduation became a victim after the lorry carrying sand lost control and rammed the motorcyclists which were on motion Sunday afternoon at Nyambera area. Nyangaresi and his grandmother Wilkster Moraa had boarded one motorbike and died on the spot when the accident occurred. The two were headed home after attending a church service at Nyambera Catholic Church, with the third person identified as Henry Nyabuto. Four other people were also admitted to Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital with minor injuries. Nyangaresi lost his father a few years ago and he is said to have left his mother in church and chose to ride on the same motorbike with the grandmother. READ MORE Eight people from two families die in separate road accidents in Machakos and Narok No more music or videos in school buses, NTSA declares in new guidelines Three students killed in bus joyride According to Father Lawrence Nyaanga, who led the mass, Nyangaresi had participated in the service and read a story on the prodigal son in the Bible. &quot;We can&#39;t tell whether he had a premonition of his death but all we can request for is our drivers to be extra careful on our roads. We also request the government to repair the road because it is sometimes impassable. The potholes on this road are a menace to most drivers,&quot; said Father Nyaanga. Witnesses said that the vehicle was headed to Nyamataro area of Kisii and they heard the driver was hooting before the vehicle overturned across the road. &quot;The vehicle was on high speed and we sensed danger. It rammed into the first motorbike dragging for almost ten meters all the two people who were riding on the motorbike. The second rider stopped to give way to the lorry but the vehicle hit them from the side,&quot; said Susan Kemunto, a fuel attendant at a nearby filling station. Kisii Traffic Commandant Eric Kithinji led the rescue mission saying that they will carry out further investigation to establish the cause of the accident. Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital CEO Enock Ondari confirmed the number of causalities. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;