Several Kanu MCAs from West Pokot County have castigated Deputy President William Ruto for making disparaging remarks against Senator John Lonyangapuo. The MCAs demanded an unreserved public apology from the DP to Prof Lonyangapuo and the county residents failing which, they will frustrate any attempts by Ruto to visit the region. According to them, during a recent meeting with some Pokot leaders and grassroots delegates at his Karen residence, Ruto accused Lonyangapuo of dictating the Pokot community on charting their political destiny. In remarks by the DP that went viral on social media, Ruto is heard saying the Pokot community should not accept to be misled by Senator Lonyangapuo. Ruto urged the community to join the Jubilee Party (JP), saying they should not agree to be &quot;misled&quot; to remain in Kanu, which has refused to merge into JP. Led by County Assembly majority leader Simion Kalekem, the ward reps condemned Ruto for &quot;provoking the community&quot; by undermining its elected leaders. READ MORE Kanu accuses Jubilee of using its colours 26 Wiper MCAs threaten to walk out of party Pro-Gachagua MCAs kicked out &quot;If he does not apologise, then he should know he is not welcome in our county,&quot; he said. Speaking in Eldoret town yesterday, Kalekem, who was with MCAs Samuel Limale (Siyoi ward), Thomas Ngolesia (Seker) and Simion Chumaker (Tapach) claimed the DP has persistently insulted the Pokot community because they have resolved not to join Jubilee Party. As the MCAs held the press conference, their supporters and their Jubilee rivals in West Pokot County held parallel demonstrations over Ruto&#39;s remark. Kanu supporters were the first to march on the streets of Makutano town, claiming the DP insulted their senator. The MCAs and two of their colleagues from Baringo county then joined the demonstrators and accused Ruto of dividing the community and forcing leaders on them. The demonstrators gave the DP two days to apologise to the Pokot community or else they will not vote for Jubilee in next year&#39;s General Election. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;