Rogue lawyers working with corrupt cartels have been blamed for the mysterious disappearance of crucial court files. Two candidates for the position of Deputy Chief Justice admitted before the Judicial Service Commission interview panel that cartels and corruption were rife in the Judiciary, and pledged to fight them if appointed. Lady Justice Lydia Achode told the panel that she once encountered the cartels when she was serving as the High Court registrar. She said the cartels threatened her when she enquired about some misappropriated money. &quot;I had a chance to encounter the cartels in the Judiciary and discovered how files got lost - some lawyers were colluding with Judiciary staff to steal files and take them to Kamiti Prison to be destroyed,&quot; she said. Another candidate, lawyer Joyce Majiwa, told the panel that the Judiciary needs to work on transparency and impose sanctions on corrupt court officials. READ MORE PS Mangiti and NYS boss plotted Sh695m theft, says official We will fight graft, deputy CJ hopefuls say Nyeri County officials spend second night in jail Ms Majiwa battled the &quot;outsider&quot; tag, saying any Kenyan who has practised law for more than 15 years has enough experience to be a deputy CJ. &quot;My lack of judicial experience is not a shortfall and the debate about the insider and outsider should not be used to divide the Judiciary. Our main focus should be the expeditious disposal of cases and to serve justice to the public,&quot; she said. Majiwa, a founder member and former chairperson of the Federation of Women Lawyers (Fida-Kenya) was making a second attempt to be the deputy Chief Justice. She was first interviewed for the position in 2013 but lost to Lady Justice Kalpana Rawal. Asked about her views on abortion, Majiwa said she would allow it if the life of a mother was in danger. &quot;As a woman, I understand what abortion is. I would not allow a woman to die just to keep a child if her life was danger. The issue of abortion is very divisive, nobody wants to be wrong or right but we have to look at the parameters that the law allows for abortion,&quot; she said. On electoral disputes, Majiwa said the 14 days the Supreme Court had to determine a presidential election petition was not sufficient and that this should be increased to 30 days to allow all parties to argue their cases adequately. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;