Nyando MP Fred Outa boards a police vehicle under tight security on Tuesday after his arrest at Ahero police station where he had gone to record statement. (Photo: Denish Ochieng/ Standard) Nyando Member of Parliament Fred Outa has been arrested in connection with unrest witnessed at Ahero Girls&#39; Secondary School. Outa was accused of inciting the students to violence after the school principal Sarah Odipo was interdicted. The school was later closed indefinitely after a battle between the students and police officers degenerated into damage of school property. &quot;We have advised the area Education Officers to close the school as we do not want to risk the lives of the students. The principal has been interdicted and that is a communication from the headquarters which we do not have powers to challenge,&quot; said County TSC Director Joyce Kikuvi. Kikuvi Tuesday confirmed the interdiction, saying the principal had numerous charges which include forgery, mismanagement of school funds and breach of the profession&#39;s code of conduct. According to Kikuvi, a team of investigators from the commission&#39;s headquarters had visited the school and came up with the report which informed the interdiction. &quot;The principal had been transferred in January but she refused to leave the school, so the headquarters took up the matter and effected the interdiction which was reached after considering the recommendations of all the stakeholders,&quot; she said. The students started demonstrating on Monday night shortly after the principal received the interdiction letter which was delivered by the area TSC officials. The protest proceeded to Tuesday morning when the students started pelting stones at police officers and outsiders who had arrived to quell the situation. They even kept the reporters at bay, throwing assorted material at those who had moved to listen to their plight, as they demanded for the reinstatement of the principal. MP heckled GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;