Amid great pomp and colour, President Uhuru Kenyatta unveiled his 2017 re-election vehicle with a bold notice on older generation leaders to quit. In what was presumed to be directed to CORD leader Raila Odinga, Uhuru told thousands of party supporters that time for generational change has come. He described the launch of Jubilee Party as &ldquo;generational statement of change&rdquo; beyond even himself and his deputy William Ruto. The President said Jubilee is crafted from mistakes of past political formations which have been &ldquo;nothing more than special purpose vehicles to elect selfish leaders, or enclaves designed to protect tribal interests.&rdquo; &ldquo;Not every leader can read the signs of the times. Many still hope to find opportunity in division. Time and again, they have divided Kenyans against each other. Time and again, they have chosen violent, destructive and undemocratic politics.&rdquo; &ldquo;And each and every time, ordinary Kenyans have paid a high price for the irresponsibility of their leaders. That is why I say now, to those who still sell the politics of division and negativity: you had your chance. You wasted it, again and again -- always opting to divide Kenyans, rather than unite them. READ MORE Raila must repackage himself as political landscape is jolted Show of might, jubilation as delegates unite in &lsquo;Tuko Pamoja&rsquo; chorus It will take more than &lsquo;resolutions&rsquo; to save the world Your time is done,&rdquo; he told supporters at the Jubilee Party launch at Kasarani, Nairobi, yesterday. He said his generation was determined to lead Kenyans on a path of unity to reach the heights they always dream of. Uhuru tied Kenya&rsquo;s destiny with his. He was born at the dawn of Kenya&rsquo;s independence in 1961. He claimed Kenya&rsquo;s joys have been his joys and Kenya&rsquo;s pain his pain. &nbsp;He regretted Kenya&rsquo;s lost opportunities in times of turbulence like the confusion of multiparty dawn, post Narc era of divisions and post-election period of 2008. &ldquo;We recall that it was when we were united as a people that we managed to grow and diversify our economy, to work on a dream to stand tall among the nations,&rdquo; he recalled. Division and disunity bred a politics that was undemocratic and unresponsive to the needs of the people, he said. He said Kenyans cannot continue making &ldquo;fatal choice&rdquo; after another hence Jubilee. &ldquo;William and I chose to unite as friends, and as Kenyans. We urged conflicting communities to come together in search of reconciliation, knowing that this would be the path of unity that this country deserves and needs. We decided to offer leadership to serve the Wanjikus across Kenya who have always sought freedom and progress, in spite of their sometimes disappointing leaders,&rdquo; he said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;