NAIROBI: The campaign season is with us. Increasingly, the elections slated for next year are showing signs that they will be very competitive. The sophistication that comes with electoral campaigning has also moved a notch higher. In more ways than one, our campaigns mirror the American campaign pitting Hillary Clinton against Donald Trump, with a fair share of drama and counter offensive tactics at play. With increased competitiveness across all the electoral slots comes the need to engage in strategic communications to win the day. Reputation management for the candidates will be a key headache subject to cultural and sometimes easy-to-ignore politically important voter dynamics. Naturally, politicians tend to be the most dynamic consumers of public communication platforms. To survive in politics means growing a thick skin that allows you to adopt all the integrated marketing communication solutions almost effortlessly, sometimes even subconsciously. Today&rsquo;s political strategies are no longer founded on capacity to mudsling. The ground has shifted. To win a political duel, one must creatively craft a campaign that seeks to dazzle and confound as much as it seeks to sell ideals. Candidates participating in the electoral process are setting off for the grueling campaigns well aware of the need to package themselves as bankable brands; well-packaged brands that can easily arrest audiences with persuasive speeches. The recent launch of the Jubilee Party speaks of the essence of political branding to help shape narratives. READ MORE Trump opposes plan for U.S. to cede internet oversight Trump claims White House snubbing IS threat after blasts Trump proposes disarming Clinton guards The hiring of aptly branded Sports Utility Vehicles and an office block for example sends out an image of a solid party that will spare no effort in winning the election ahead. To a large extent, branding and related communication efforts, including counter operations, play a key role in fundraising by enhancing support base confidence. Such communications strategies are developed with the sole intention of providing a clear differentiation between the candidate and his opponents. The winning President, MCA, MP, woman representative, senator or governor next year will need to have created a distinct brand to sail through the crowded field. The art of behavioural science from a communications perspective allows the candidate to design messages that resonate with the electoral audience. These messages, however, must be founded on a distinct identity. From choice of party colours, slogans cum campaign clarion calls, all the way to campaign routes and news media option.In the current state of Kenyan political affairs, candidates will need to undertake detailed research and analysis to understand their audience. Whereas party affiliations may matter, understanding and analysing insights touching on the audience priorities, fears, and expectations of their elected leader will be a key requirement. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;