Kenya has increasingly become the preferred route of illegal traders and international drug traffickers even as the government steps up the fight against the narcotics trade. Last week, cocaine worth Sh600 million was seized at Mombasa port by police. Various UN reports have indicated that at least two major international narcotics trade routes tend to converge on Mombasa. Several high profile seizures of drugs, illegal ivory and other contraband have been intercepted at the port. However, analysts say this often happens when foreign navies and governments are complicit in the business or that sometimes the high profile seizures occur because various rival criminal networks clash for spoils. Loopholes But what seems to be the problem? The expansion of illegal trade and the narcotics business has previously been attributed to poor investigations where state&nbsp; agencies conduct their own probes without collaborating with other groups. READ MORE Musician General Defao detained in Mombasa hotel for Sh20,000 Senators now clear Governor Joho over audit queries Low income earners to get clean piped water Experts say the war on illegal trade and drug trafficking cannot be won without inter-agency cooperation that brings together all the relevant agencies. Among the institutions involved in the fight against narcotics and illegal trading include National Intelligence Service, Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) and other security agencies under the Ministry of Interior and Coordination of National Government. Following the latest drug seizure, law enforcement officers and port officials are on high alert. One of the bodies on the spot, Kenya Ports Authority (KPA), says X-Ray scanners installed to inspect and verify cargo have been functioning well and insist that authorities are more vigilant. Customs chief manager and port operations boss Joseph Kaguru says the three scanners at the port have been effective in detecting contraband. &ldquo;The scanners are functioning and we are planning to increase the number. We are more vigilant over contraband cargo,&rdquo; Kaguru said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;