Deputy President William Ruto took Jubilee campaigns to Kakamega County and asked the Luhya community to choose between development and empty rhetoric. Speaking yesterday during the homecoming party of Sammy Itemere, the Principal Secretary Ministry of Information and Technology at Burendwa School, Ruto said Jubilee was committed to developing all regions. Ruto said CORD lacks a clear manifesto for the country and was only good at organising demonstrations and castigating the government. The DP urged Kakamega residents to join Jubilee Party saying the ruling coalition is ready and keen to work with everyone regardless of their political affiliation. He maintained that Jubilee will still clinch power in next year&rsquo;s General Election. &ldquo;The difference between us in the Jubilee Party and CORD is like day and night. The Opposition does not have a clear manifesto for Kenyans,&rdquo; said Ruto. READ MORE Forget Kisii vote, Raila tells Uhuru Stop sabotage, Ruto warns Rift Valley leaders Governor Mutua: Maendeleo Chap Chap to field candidates He said Jubilee was committed to ensuring Kenyans live peacefully and the 2007/8 election violence does not happen again. &ldquo;When we took over the leadership of this country we agreed that we will ensure that Kenyans live peacefully. Politics of division does not have space in the 21 Century,&rdquo; Ruto stated. Ruto also inspected the Sigalagala-Butere Road and launched Digital Literacy Programme at the school. The Deputy President was accompanied by MPs Emmanuel Wangwe (Navakholo), Benard Shinali (Ikolomani) Dan Wanyama (Webuye West), Ben Washiali (Mumias East) among others. Earlier, DP Ruto while speaking Nyahururu town, warned the Opposition to be prepared of a strong defeat in the coming General Elections. Ruto&nbsp; exuded confidence that the Jubilee government would win by over 70 per cent of the votes. Speaking at 91 Municipality Primary School in Nyahururu town yesterday, Ruto said Jubilee government had already won the support of Kenyans due to its development record. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;