Hundreds&nbsp;of villagers have left over 10 centres in Garba-Tula as tension rises after the killing of an elderly woman and two children by herders. The rival sides from Borana on Isiolo side and Auliyan from Lagdera in Garissa County have had a history of bloody clashes since 1980s. Fresh clashes are sparked off whenever people from the Garissa side come to Isiolo in search of pasture and water during the dry period. The relationship between the two sides got worse in May following incidences of cattle-rustling and criminal activities along the water points and grazing fields. The conflict reached a new low on Thursday when&nbsp;an elderly woman and two children were killed. They were shot at a blank point range and their throats later slit. Belgish, the most-affected trading centre of about 1,000 locals has remained deserted for the last three days. &lsquo;&lsquo;There is nobody in Belgish, a flourishing livestock market that attracts traders from Meru,&rdquo; said Garba-Tula MCA Abdi Sora. &ldquo;The bandits have taken over the entire area.&rdquo; The MCA said the victims were targeted as two of them are members of Garba Tula Elders&rsquo; Peace committee and they were vocal in calling on the authorities to evict herders from Lagdera, in Garissa County who crossed into Isiolo side in May in search of pasture and water. READ MORE Militant suspected in Bangladesh cafe attack killed himself, police say At least 21 civilians killed in Saudi-led air strikes in Yemen Leaders, civil society demand justice for boy killed by police in Mombasa County Isiolo County Commissioner George Natembeya said they are pursuing the five suspects from Lagdera who were behind the Thursday attack. &lsquo;&lsquo;They are five people and we have their names, we also know the leaders behind this. We will get them,&rsquo;&rsquo; said Mr Natembeya. Other affected areas include Malkadaka, Kulamawe, Iresaboru, Sericho and Baranbate. From Friday, there was an exodus of the clan from Lagdera&nbsp;fleeing&nbsp;centres in Isiolo South. Isiolo Governor Godana Doyo, nominated senator Fatuma Dhullo, Women Representative Tiyah Galgalo and Isiolo South MP Abdullahi Banticha have condemned the killings. Mr Doyo and Ms Dhullo questioned why the herders were still present in Garba-Tula and yet the County Security Committee had agreed to evict them two months ago following frequent outbreak of violence in the area. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;