A Jubilee Party meeting convened by Senator Kiraitu Murungi in Meru town has triggered protests in some quarters and underscored the tensions that have been building in the party that was launched on September 10. Although Kiraitu, a member of the JP steering committee before the party swallowed up other parties, is reported to have summoned all aspirants in the county for the meeting, some of those invited, and registered interim officials of JP have said the Meru Senator has no authority to do so. According to advertisements that have been running on local FM stations in the past week, the meeting will be held at the Thiiri Convention Centre on the fridges of Meru town. However, Saturday JP vice chairman David Murathe dismissed Murungi&rsquo;s role, saying the steering committee&rsquo;s mandate ended after the merger and the Senator cannot speak on behalf of the party. Mr Murathe, who is part of the team that has been registered at the Registrar of Political Party offices as interim officials, described Kiraitu and his team as &ldquo;ordinary members of the party.&rdquo; This came as another co-chair of the steering committee Noah Wekesa was in Kirinyaga speaking on party issues and wrangles in counties. READ MORE Litmus test for Jubilee Party in by-election Internal nominations will not shake JP Top lawyer writes to Raila over defectors as party meets During JP&rsquo;s much-publicised launch, President Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto did not name interim officials to steer the party as had been widely anticipated, and this appears to have encouraged others to act as though they are speaking on behalf of the party. Because new party officials were not named during the merger,&nbsp;&nbsp; officials of the Jubilee Alliance Party (JAP) were temporarily registered as interim officials as JP waits for the President and his deputy to name the new line up. Saturday, Murathe said only the interim officials had the mandate to run the party as they wait for the party leader (the President) and deputy leader (the DP) to appoint substantive office holders. &ldquo;The work of the members of the steering committee ended when the merger was successful. They are now ordinary members of the party,&rdquo; he told The Standard on Sunday. Murathe, a former Gatanga MP, also reiterated that the party had no officials at the county level, and noted that those claiming they were JP officials were illegitimate. &ldquo;No incumbent elected leader or an aspirant will be an official of the party as the President has clearly stated. Nominations in JP is one issue which we must get it right; our two leaders have insisted on a free and fair nomination and we are not going short of that.&rdquo; Murathe said by virtue of declaring that they were vying for political seats, Kiraitu and Dr Wekesa had disqualified themselves as potential officials of JP. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;