Judicial Service Commission (JSC) members wound up their interviews for a replacement of former Chief Justice and President of the Supreme Court Willy Mutunga, and retreated to pick the lucky man or woman. Yesterday, the commissioners concluded interviews with 11 candidates fielding questions on their professional competence, personal integrity and views on judicial reforms and administration of justice. JSC will now have the arduous task of ticking off the strengths and weaknesses showed by each of the candidates and picking out the best. The new CJ will automatically be the one to preside over any upcoming presidential election court suit and even the subsequent swearing-in ceremony after next August&rsquo;s elections. The grueling interviews were characterised by tough questions touching on the candidates&rsquo; careers, experience, achievements, intellectual capabilities, personal lives and controversies. JSC had initially shortlisted judges Alnashir Visram, Mbogholi Msagha, David Maraga, Roselyn Nambuye, Smokin Wanjala and Nzamba Kitonga but expanded the list following a court order. Those given a second chance were Justice Jackton Ojwang, retired Judge Aaron Ringera, US-based law lecturer Makau Mutua, Mr Daniel Wambura and Ms Lucy Wanja. Mr Paul Udoto Kongani and Mr David Waihiga opted out of the race. READ MORE I stand by my statement about Mr Kenyatta, says CJ hopeful Mutua CJ candidate to stop media coverage if given job Our undoing is leadership with no moral conscience All the candidates agreed that corruption was a major problem in the Judiciary, with reducing case backlogs and dismantling cartels being their top priorities. CASE BACKLOGS However, the interviews were not devoid of controversy and light moments. At one point, Prof Makau and Prof Ojwang&rsquo;s grilling turned to a battle of wits involving legal scholars when they took on commissioners Prof Githu Muigai and Prof Tom Ojienda. Justice Visram&rsquo;s vision is to have a permanent directory to check corruption in the Judiciary, digitise case administration in the Judiciary and reduce case backlogs. &ldquo;My strengths lie in the number of my accomplished work. I led a small team of judges in Nyeri and was able to eliminate the case backlog within a short time. I have also been the chair of the rules committee and the mediation committee in the Judiciary,&rdquo; said Visram. He was however put to task over his past judgments where he awarded former minister Nicholas Biwott Sh25 million in a defamation suit and his suit against The Standard newspaper where he was awarded Sh26 million. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;