Justice David Maraga, the Chief Justice nominee, could have been nowhere near the corridors of justice were it not for his resilience and support from loving brothers, some of whom sacrificed their own education to pay his school fees. Tales of a young David trekking through bushy footpaths in poverty-ravaged villages to go to school at an early age paints a picture of a man who had a resolve to achieve his dreams at whatever cost. As the Bonyamatuta village reverberated with song and dance over Maranga&rsquo;s nomination for the Judiciary&rsquo;s top job, his age-mates and former schoolmates remembered him as a devoutly religious lanky boy who always ensured his team won village football matches. His elder brothers James Ochengo, 67, and Thomas Barake, 70, described him as someone with big dreams.&nbsp; His parents are both deceased. His father died in 1973, a year after David joined high school, while his mother died in 1998. In 1989, Justice Maraga relocated to Nakuru where he still lives with his family. While Barake had no stable job, Ochengo who was a policeman, would play the larger part in helping out their younger brother through school. READ MORE It&rsquo;s now the turn of MPs to vet Maraga for CJ job A sample of Justice Maraga&rsquo;s court rulings Maraga is the antidote Judiciary needs, colleagues say Records at the Kisii Boys High School, then known as Kisii Secondary School, list Barake as David&rsquo;s guardian. &ldquo;Justice Maraga&rsquo;s childhood story is that of an ambitious young boy who could not be pulled back from achieving his dreams by abject poverty in his family,&rdquo; says Ochengo. He and his siblings would often walk home for lunch, only to find no meal and return to school hungry.&nbsp; Ochengo says it was a difficult childhood shaped by strong Christian values.&nbsp; Maraga was baptised and received to the Seventh Adventist Church while in primary school at Sironga. Values not changed Former West Mugirango MP Benson Kegoro, who was the Kisii School headteacher during Maraga&rsquo;s time, said Maraga&rsquo;s&nbsp; values have not changed over time. Mr Kegoro described him as a young man who was very intelligent, but always cool and a favourite of many teachers. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;