The raid of United Republican Party (URP) offices over the list of delegates to this week&rsquo;s launch of the Jubilee Party and a court injunction stopping Ford People from merging with this alliance underline some simmering tensions threatening to spoil the ruling coalition&rsquo;s party. On Thursday, some youths from URP broke into the party&rsquo;s branch offices in Bomet County to protest against a list of delegates cleared to attend the three-day national delegates convention that will see 11 political parties fold and merge under the JP umbrella. They claimed those listed as delegates were irregularly selected, even as it emerged that Deputy President&rsquo;s William Ruto&rsquo;s party appeared to get the short end of the stick with an allocation of only 900 delegates compared to TNA&rsquo;s 1,650. Even as the row of delegates selected unfolds, the underlying tensions are being felt further afield, with members of one of the parties listed as among those set to fold challenging the legitimacy of their office bearers. Last Friday, some PNU officials led by John Kamama went to court seeking orders to stop a delegates&rsquo; conference set to install Meru Governor Peter Munya as the new party leader. Mr Kamama, who is the chairman, and PNU&rsquo;s Organising Secretary Alphonse Musyoki argued the meeting called by their Secretary General contravened the law. They dismissed the notice sent out by PNU Secretary General John Anunda, saying it intends to endorse Munya as party leader without following procedures laid out in the party&rsquo;s constitution. Through lawyer Victor Ayieko, who filed a case under a certificate of urgency before the political parties tribunal, the two leaders argued Anunda had no authority to call for either a National Governing Council (NGC) or a National Delegates&rsquo; Conference (NDC). A day before, the Political Parties Tribunal also heard a plea of Ford People members who challenged the party&rsquo;s inclusion in the list of political outfits earmarked for dissolution. READ MORE Stop stealing at port, President Uhuru warns employees Activists call off police killings demo as Uhuru visits Law on access to information was long overdue Two weeks ago, the party had placed an advert stating its intention to dissolve, but Jerry Kenyansa, a member of Ford People in a suit restrained the party from either convening any meeting to discuss the planned merger or dissolution pending the hearing and determination of the case. The Political Parties Dispute Tribunal responded by stopping the planned dissolution of Ford People party.&nbsp; In the South Rift, youths in Bomet, waving placards, rejected a list of delegates selected to represent the URP branch during the conference that will see URP dissolve. They said local officials did not consult them before drawing the list. Led by Victor Rop and Patrick Rotich, the youths seized computers at the office in protest and locked the premises. &ldquo;We are not going to open this office until the list is redrawn and bona fide URP members included,&rdquo; said Rop, a day after 500 delegates and party officials from 25 wards in Bomet County announced they had decamped to Chama Cha Mashinani. ISOLATED CASES These isolated incidents have deflected some of the attention from what is said to be the biggest party launch in recent years in which each party will be represented by delegates according to a pre-arranged formula. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;