The appointment of Prof Laban Ayiro as the acting Vice Chancellor of Moi University has brought out the worst in individuals who pass themselves off as national leaders. The appointment came only a few days after legislators now opposed to it attended the launch of Jubilee Party, where they proclaimed to the world tribalism was going to be a thing of the past in Kenya. The duplicity shown by governors Jackson Mandago (Uasin Gishu) and Alex Tolgos (Elgeyo Marakwet), and MPs Oscar Sudi, Silas Tiren, James Bett is astounding in as much as it is moving the country backwards. These leaders have shown disdain for the rule of law on other occasions, at some point purporting to bar Opposition leaders from holding rallies in Uasin Gishu and also attempting to bar Prof Teresa Akenga from becoming the Vice Chancellor of Eldoret University because she did not belong to any of the local communities. In the end, this has cast serious doubt on the leaders&#39; claims of working to unite Kenyans when tribal inclinations hold the pride of place in their hearts and minds. The objection to the appointment of Prof Ayiro purely on tribal basis is pedestrian. It would have made sense if these leaders had faulted the appointment on procedural matters or on whether the appointee did not meet the threshold of becoming a Vice Chancellor, yet that was not the case. While a report by the National Cohesion and Integration Commission showed that Kenyan universities had degenerated into tribal outfits that had compromised quality of learning, it would seem leaders opposed to people from outside their tribal formations taking leadership positions in their midst are at peace with the damning report. Moi University is a national institution that was established long before the advent of devolution behind which some leaders are hiding to propagate hate against other Kenyans. Politicians should learn to stop meddling where what counts is professionalism; not the empty, divisive political rhetoric they are used to. READ MORE Matiang'i vows not to rescind his appointment of Moi University VC Raila hits out at Jubilee Party in Coast tour Kenyan universities have lost the edge