RONGO: The Member of Kisumu County Assembly who went missing on Thursday has said his life is still in danger after raising claims that he has been getting death threats which he has consequently been reporting to the police. Paul Odhiambo Okwiri said his&nbsp;kidnapping is the making of people who want to silence his political activism. He said he had made many reports to the police in Kisumu about threats he was receiving in his mobile phone, but nothing had been done so far to protect him. According to the politician, there were people he never named who were tracking him and they have been issuing death threats to him. His political activity at the Kisumu County Assembly, he said was the reason for all the troubles he was experiencing. &quot;The day before I met the kidnappers, I had received a call from a number which has been frequently sending me the threatening texts and the person who was speaking told me to be careful with my life if I cannot cut down my energy against the County Government,&quot; said Mr Okwiri. READ MORE Stolen day-old baby found alive and hidden in house Chaos in Kisumu West as area MCA is kidnapped Seven arrested for kidnapping ex-MP&rsquo;s aide The most recent he said was his outspoken role in the Kisumu County Assembly&#39;s ad hoc committee that was investigating alleged misappropriation of funds at by the Executive. He said people who are not known have been calling him and notifying him how they were monitoring his movements, something he said he also reported to the police. On the fateful Thursday night, Okwiri narrated that he was driving home to his Sinyolo Village at around 11pm when three people emerged from a nearby banana garden. They accosted him and ordered him to slow down his vehicle. &quot;When I tried to resist, they slapped me and forced me and bundled me into the car booth, after which they blindfolded me and drove for a long while before they took me to a small room where they hid me overnight,&quot; he said. He was driven from the room again at around 9am and after many stop overs, he was abandoned at Rongo around 8pm on Friday. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;