Six years ago, the United Nations General Assembly voted to designate August 30 as the International Day of Victims of Enforced Disappearance, to draw attention to the global problem of enforced disappearances. The discussions drew little relevance in Kenya. This was for two reasons. Three days earlier, Kenyans had voted overwhelmingly for a new Constitution clearly safeguarding a raft of human rights. Second, the country was happily turning its back on the dark days when security officers in different formations abducted, tortured and even killed opponents with impunity. Most Kenyans would have believed that the day focused on countries suffocating from the tight grip of military dictatorships. This belief soon turned fallacious. Cases of enforced disappearances are turning out to be the norm other than the exception. On August 30, 2016, Kenya joined the international community in observing the day. This is because nearly every corner of the country is reeling with anguished men and women - parents, partners, spouses, children, workmates, schoolmates or friends -desperately without respite seeking information on their loved ones who disappeared. They too are now victims. READ MORE Activists call off police killings demo as Uhuru visits Act now to end enforced disappearances During the event, the Independent Medical-Legal Unit (IMLU) reported that in 2016 alone, 100 incidents where individuals had gone missing while in the hands of security agencies were recorded. Since 2009, they have documented more than 300 enforced disappearances. Journalist Francis Nyaruri would be one of the first in this long list of the disappeared. Whereas in the late 2000s, most of the killings were attributed to the so-called Mungiki crackdown by the police, the latest wave has been under the guise of dealing with people suspected to be members of the Islamist Group, Al-Shabaab. These staggering statistics lend credence to allegations that the abduction and killing of lawyer Willie Kimani, his client, Josphat Mwenda and their driver Joseph Muiruri was not an isolated incident but a systemic phenomenon. In fact, during the weekend after their abduction, three bodies thought to be them were recovered in Mai Mahiu. Incidentally, they had been similarly tortured and killed. In any civilised society, every person accused of a crime should have their guilt or innocence determined by a fair and effective legal process. But the right to a fair trial is not just about protecting suspects and defendants. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;