Mombasa Governor Ali Hassan Joho&rsquo;s growing dominance in ODM emerged recently when he hosted party leader Raila Odinga, 14 governors and dozens of MPs. A fiery orator, who has established his credentials as a critic of the Jubilee administration, Joho did not disappoint last weekend at the ODM&rsquo;s 10th anniversary celebration when together with Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi, they declared war on the ruling coalition ahead of next year&rsquo;s General Election. Joho, who has been politically rising steadily since 2007 when he won the Kisauni parliamentary seat, acquired new stature among ODM supporters when he began to take on Jubilee in 2014 through to last year when he launched broadsides against President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto. His credentials peaked when he and Kingi wrestled Jubilee and denied it the Malindi parliamentary seat in the March 7 by-election. Analysts suggest that Joho&rsquo;s rise has, in part, been caused by Jubilee&rsquo;s perceived persecution of the former Assistant minister as exemplified by the state&rsquo;s withdrawal of his and Kingi&rsquo;s security and licensed guns after the by-election defeat. In recent years, Joho, who has faced a host of legal problems since becoming governor in 2013, has sharpened his attacks on Jubilee, increasingly not shying away from launching direct attacks on Uhuru and Ruto, a quality he has shared with Kingi and Raila. But analysts also point out that Joho, who has accused the Jubilee regime of seeking to destroy the Coast economy, benefits from his oratory skills, organisational and mobilisation capacity as well as immense family wealth. READ MORE Nominations headache splits ODM leaders Stand-off over rally venue quite unnecessary ODM is putting Jubilee on notice, Wandayi He has publicly vowed to ensure Jubilee loses the entire Coast including Lamu and Kwale where the ruling coalition has been making in-roads. Some observers believe he could fit into Raila&rsquo;s shoes should the ODM leader retire from politics. Although Joho is deputy party leader like Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, he has appeared more steadfast, comparatively, in defence of the party and its policies. He has evidently established his credentials as a national leader. His political heart tricks are seen to have overshadowed CORD co-principals Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula and Kalonzo Musyoka since he has continued to steal the public limelight as a brave politician frequently challenging the status quo in public. Kilifi Senator Stewart Madzayo says Joho&rsquo;s style of politics has helped ODM get many seats in Coast and helped to deliver the Malindi seat to the party after camping their for more than a month. BIGGER SAY &ldquo;Joho&rsquo;s style of politics has been one of bravery like that of the late Karisa Maitha. It has raised his national stature. He helped delivered 22 major political seats to ODM in 2013 and also to regain the Malindi parliamentary seat in the March by-election. Coast region even deserved a bigger say in CORD because of his performance,&rdquo; Madzayo noted. According to Madzayo, Coast will present Joho to Kenyans as a presidential candidate in 2022 following his ability to unite communities. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;