For three days, starting today, the Jubilee Alliance Party delegates drawn from affiliate political parties which have voluntarily consented to disband to form a single outfit; the Jubilee Party will be meeting in Nairobi. No one could begrudge the ceremony, the pomp and fanfare that will accompany the event. The event signals another beginning of sorts in our nascent democracy. But then a question arises; at whose cost is the event being held? The line between a ruling party and State machinery has never been clear with the taxpayer often picking up expensive bills for party affairs. It is in the public domain that State House, rather than the Jubilee Party headquarters has been the centre of activities in hailing and preparing the launch of the Jubilee Party on Friday. Comments by Noah Wekesa, a key architect of the merger doesn&#39;t help matters either. This points to the possible misuse of public resources for purely private undertakings. Jubilee, like any other political party in the country, is just a political party funded through the yearly allocations from the Registrar of Political Parties as outlined in the Political Parties Amendment Bill 2015. As a matter of public interest, organisers of the event should spare no effort in reassuring Kenyans that public coffers have not been raided. The party should demonstrate it will facilitate the organisation of the event; from transport logistics, security, allowances for delegates and booking the venues. Because were the opposite to happen, it would amount to a breach of the law and which should attract severe sanctions. Word and action from the organisers of Jubilee&#39;s jamboree that it doesn&#39;t intent to use public money will also help limit the perpetual political posturing as the ruling party and the opposition seek to upstage each other on matters of accountability and fidelity to the rule of the law. READ MORE It will take more than &lsquo;resolutions&rsquo; to save the world Uhuru and Moi condole with Ntimama's family Anxiety in CORD as politicians plot to defect to Jubilee