A trove of leaked diplomatic cables has exposed President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s private views on former President Mwai Kibaki, CORD leader Raila Odinga, former opposition movement ODM-K, Chinese take-over of Kenya&rsquo;s economic space and apprehension for ethnic strife in 2007. The cables, released on August 15 by Wikileaks, were drafted from two meetings held with former Assistant Secretary of State Jendayi Frazer, Ambassador Michael Ranneberger, the Political Counselor of the US embassy and Ted Craig, a visiting State Department official on October 19 and 20, 2006. The cables which have not been re-published or discussed in public since they were uploaded, depict Kenyatta as a largely conscientious politician at the time and one whom the Americans concluded &ldquo;is one of the most perceptive and enlightened of Kenya&rsquo;s politicians&rdquo;. In the cables, he admits seeing the controversial &ldquo;NARC Memorandum of Understanding&rdquo;, ironically describes his then party as &ldquo;terrible Kanu&rdquo;, dismisses former President Kibaki as a dishonest man, vouches for party discipline, opposes dissolution of parties into coalitions and slights the structure of Constituency Development Fund. He warns of Kibaki&rsquo;s folly of assured re-election, decries personality and ethnic politics, abhors Chinese workmanship and vouches for principled politics. Strong presidency READ MORE CORD is more united than ever, Raila declares Nyaga, Kosgei now chancellors as universities expansion frozen ODM defectors fail to honour summons citing their security at Orange House &ldquo;He governed not as the head of a coalition but as the head of his Democratic Party, which represented only one part of Central Province. Once in power he decided there was no need to change the strong presidency, features of the constitution he campaigned against,&rdquo; the cables report Kenyatta as having said of Kibaki. &ldquo;Then seeing that he had lost his parliamentary majority, he did what even Moi never did, poaching members of other parties to be part of his government. After several years of this, there is no party discipline at all. Confusion reigns,&rdquo; the cables say while attributing it to Kenyatta. The leaks report Kenyatta as saying that: &ldquo;The average Kikuyu has received no special benefit from this (Kibaki&rsquo;s) government, only the cronies around Kibaki have benefited.&rdquo; He went on to discourage ethnic warfare and mobilisation. But in a dramatic shift from these principles, Uhuru would later dump the opposition he led and support Kibaki for the 2007 presidential poll. He, however, stuck to his guns and refused to dissolve Kanu and much later, today, has governed as the head of a coalition. As President, Uhuru has also poached opposition MPs and appointed them into his Cabinet. In the cables, Uhuru laments that Kibaki was given a &ldquo;golden opportunity&rdquo; to bring Kenyans together. He says instead, the former President squandered the opportunity &ldquo;and now we are at a worse state of affairs than we were prior to 2002 especially as regards entrenched ethnic sentiments&rdquo;. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;