The county government will tarmack at least 18km of roads within Kitale town. Governor Patrick Khaemba announced that tenders had already been awarded and that construction will begin any time soon. Mr Khaemba further announced the newly opened up roads will also have street lights to enable businesspeople to work late into the night. &ldquo;We are currently opening up the backstreets in town to ease access and installing street lights to prolong business hours and help boost the region&rsquo;s economy,&rdquo; he said. The governor also disclosed that negotiations between the county government and Kenya Railways Corporation seeking to have the latter provide space for the town&rsquo;s expansion are bearing fruit. He said the newly acquired road construction machinery valued at Sh500 million will be used to open up roads at the sub-county level and that committees had been constituted to oversee the works and determine the routes to be prioritised. READ MORE Ababu invades ODM zone and attacks Raila Tough league race Ignore Atwoli at your own peril, Luhya politicians warned FOOT BRIDGES He &nbsp;disclosed that trainers from Shantui, a Chinese company that supplied the equipment, had already taken drivers and plant operators through the basics on the use of the machineries and that over 30 staff were ready to start work. &ldquo;All the five sub-counties will each have a grader, tipper, drum roller, excavator among other road construction machinery and this will not only save on the time that would have been wasted in waiting but also enable residents to prioritise the roads to be worked on through their committee representatives,&rdquo; added Khaemba. The town is also set for a major facelift after the African Development Bank agreed to finance construction of a dual carriageway from the Eldoret-Webuye junction through the town to the county stadium, complete with street lights, foot bridges and pedestrian lanes. Major markets including Kiminini, Endebbes, Sibanga, Kapsara, Makutano and Kesogn will also be renovated.