Kenyans could go to elections earlier than 2017 should the impasse on a proposed law to help more women into power persist. Attorney General Githu Muigai has warned of possible dissolution of Parliament for failing to enact legislation to implement the constitutional Two-thirds Gender Principle. The AG has further warned of the &ldquo;possibility that the legitimacy of the incoming parliament post the 2017 General Election being called into question where the Two-thirds Gender Principle is not attained, with all the attendant risks and consequences&rdquo;. The opinion addressed to Speakers of two Houses of Parliament Justin Muturi (National Assembly) and Ekwee Ethuro (Senate) cited a Supreme Court advisory that required the House to enact the legislation by August 27, 2016. &ldquo;We wish to draw your attention to the possibility that a petition under Article 261 could portend against the current Parliament, thereby initiating the process towards dissolution of Parliament in the event of failure to adhere to the orders and directions of the court,&rdquo; Prof Muigai said. Article 261 provides that if Parliament fails to enact any legislation within the specified time, any person may petition the High Court over the matter. READ MORE France coach Deschamps wants Martial to be more consistent Party-hopping and Kenyan MPs Banking Act&rsquo;s success motivates legislation by MPs The Constitution adds that the High Court, in determining the petition, may make an order directing Parliament and the Attorney General to take steps to ensure the necessary legislation is enacted and report progress to the Chief Justice. If Parliament fails to enact the legislation in accordance to the order, &ldquo;the Chief Justice shall advise the President to dissolve Parliament and the President shall dissolve Parliament&rdquo;. In the letter, the AG said with the deadline having lapsed, such a bill can only be re-introduced after six months. Muigai wants the two speakers to urgently convene a meeting to resolve the matter in light of the possible consequences of lapse of the deadline. The letter dated August 24 reads: &ldquo;I would strongly recommend that the leadership of Parliament convenes a stakeholder&rsquo;s meeting to resolve the question and take note of the potential risks and consequences outlined herein above for information and further action.&rdquo; The principle is meant to balance the composition of elective offices in Kenya to ensure equity in Government by not allowing one gender to hold more than two-thirds of elective positions. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;