NAIROBI: The acquisition of Sh38 billion medical equipment in 2013 was expected to serve as a turning point for medical services in Kenya. The Managed Equipment Services (MES) deal targeted to equip two hospitals in each of our 47 counties with dialysis and cancer detection machines. In addition, there were to be ultra-modern machines for Intensive Care Units and heart disease diagnostic centres. Devolving medical services was to act as a further boost in strengthening health care services across the country, allowing each county to address its unique challenges. From the outset, that was not to be. Failure by county governments to meet demands for better remuneration and improved terms of service by medics resulted in strikes that still beset the country today. The result of that has been deaths that could have been avoided. From lack of medical stores, poor staffing and working conditions, theft of drugs at some hospitals and negligence, the story is the same in each of the 47 counties. Sterilisation services at the Mbagathi hospital were said to have broken down. Dialysis machines at Kenyatta National Hospital at some point broke down for months. County hospitals have machines without trained medical personnel to manage them. Bed capacity in most medical centres is outstripped by patients. It is preposterous that pregnant women in Meibek Village of Uasin Gishu ride to hospitals in neighbouring Elgeyo Marakwet County on the backs of donkeys instead of using ambulances. Today&rsquo;s health summit being held at State House should address some of these challenges. Good health is the backbone of a functional economy. Hours lost while workers seek medical attention that is not forthcoming impact negatively on the economy. Thus, there is urgent need for the national and county governments to resolve outstanding differences that impede the delivery of proper medical services. READ MORE Nurses are the backbone of Kenya&rsquo;s health system but remain neglected Kenya to donate Sh500m to global fund to fight HIV, TB and malaria Bedridden with rare cancer, girl&rsquo;s plight exposes shocking state of Kenya&rsquo;s healthcare