&nbsp; A former internally displaced person has sued the Government for injustices Kenyans have gone through since independence. John Mbugua has also roped in Queen Elizabeth, several current and past world leaders, and many international organisations, which he claims were directly responsible for the injustices faced by the people of Kenya. &quot;This is a petition for the poor people whose land was taken by the British settlers and later denied their rights by subsequent regimes. The international organisations have failed to act on the leaders and we want them to answer why they have failed us,&quot; said Mr Mbugua. He wants the people affected during the struggle for independence and those who have faced injustices at the hands of subsequent governments compensated. He also wants US presidential candidates Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton barred from visiting Kenya if any of them becomes President claiming that their policies are meant to discriminate against minority groups and Africans. READ MORE Rejecting Trump, Wall Street Republican donors scatter largesse Americans in Philippines jittery as Duterte rails against United States Election being rigged 'at many polling places': Trump &quot;Mr Trump has threatened to deport illegal immigrants including thousands of Kenyans living in the US. He should not be allowed to come to Kenya because his policies are likely to cause another world war,&quot; said Mbugua. His claim against Queen Elizabeth is that she has failed to take responsibility for atrocities committed by British soldiers during their crackdown on Mau Mau fighters. Mbugua also wants action taken against former US presidents, Bill Clinton and George Bush, arguing that their actions or going to war with Middle East countries resulted in emergence of organised terrorists groups, which have become a threat to world peace. &quot;We were amazed when President Barack Obama came to Kenya and failed to address or compensate thousands of victims affected by the 1998 bombing of the US Embassy when the victims had nothing to do with the US animosity with the terrorists,&quot; said Mbugua. military atrocities Former British Prime Minister Tony Blair and the British High Commission are also accused of not helping poor Kenyans whose land was taken by their armies and those who have lost their lives as a result of their troops training base in Kenya. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;