Candidates eyeing the Nairobi gubernatorial seat on a Jubilee Party ticket have been asked not to panic and attempt to bring down each other, as the count-down towards the 2017 general elections starts. Water Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa said the main focus of aspirants allied to President Uhuru Kenyatta&#39;s Jubilee party should be unseating Governor Evans Kidero and not tearing down each other. Speaking on Saturday after a meeting with religious leaders, Wamalwa explained that there should be no need for worry, as more aspirants jostle to fly the party&#39;s ticket since members of the public will have the last say during nominations. &quot;All the Jubilee candidates should be allies and the common opponent is the incumbent Dr Kidero. It does not add any value when candidates in the same party spread propaganda about their teammate, or attempt to disrupt meetings,&quot; said Wamalwa. The race for the Jubilee ticket for the city top job has attracted five&nbsp; candidates that include Nominated MP Johnson Sakaja, his Dagoretti South counterpart Dennis Waweru, Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko, former Starehe MP Bishop Margaret Wanjiru and former speaker Kenneth&nbsp; Marende. Although he has not formally declared his interest for the seat, CS Wamalwa has also received endorsement from a section of city and Central Kenya MPs allied to the party led by Kabete lawmaker Ferdinand Waititu, to go for the post. READ MORE Showdown looms over ODM, Jubilee city rallies MCAs dismiss Jubilee Party interim officials over face of Kenya CORD defectors left hanging as opposition vows to lock them out The endorsement has triggered mixed reactions, with some of the competitors and their supporters vocally opposing Wamalwa&#39;s bid , noting that he is an &#39;outsider&#39; and a project of some senior politician. A meeting he attended last month in Eastland&#39;s Nairobi was disrupted by rowdy youths, forcing the CS who was accompanied by Bishop Wanjiru to scamper for safety. Realignments have also been formed among the aspirants, with some ganging up against the former Saboti MP. But Wamalwa has lashed out at his critics, noting that they should concentrate on selling their bid and popularizing the President Kenyatta&rsquo;s political vehicle, instead of attacking him. &ldquo;I will not be deterred by those against my bid for the Nairobi seat, even as I continue to discharge my duty as the Water CS. They should relax because they have four months to campaign because I am still in office until February, when I will relinquish my post,&quot; he said. He added, &quot;They have a head start now and should utilize every opportunity they have to popularize themselves. Once I resign and officially launch my campaign for the post, they should brace for a fierce political battle.&quot; Leaders from Western Kenya present at the meeting including former MPs Fred Gumo and Raphael Wanjala and city politician Stanley Livondo, appealed to elected leaders from the region to back Wamalwa. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;