President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga bulldozed their MPs to abandon resistance to a party-hopping rule as the House passed two electoral Bills without changes. A day after Deputy President William Ruto told Jubilee MPs that he and the President will not tolerate attempts to expunge a clause barring defections after party primaries, Raila yesterday, too, whipped Opposition lawmakers to ensure the Bills were not altered. The MPs, who had initially removed the restriction from the main report and filed further proposals targeting the two bills, eventually buckled under the pressure from the party chiefs who are determined to lock in all politicians to their first party of choice irrespective of the outcome of nominations. And as the last frontier of resistance crumbled, members of the National Assembly opposed any form of amendments to the proposed laws, sitting late to conclude the formalities on the Bills before they went for their long recess. The legislators were hostile to any member who proposed any form of amendment to the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill and the Election Offences Bill and shot down the proposed changes by acclamation. Raila had earlier met his legislators and asked them to pass the two laws without any amendments, as the Senate had done last week. READ MORE National Assembly adjourns due to lack of quorum IEBC truce could be short-lived Shape up or ship out, Ruto tells MPs &quot;...Hon Odinga has asked all the Opposition MPs to support the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill without seeking any amendments... Odinga said the country has more to gain by the Bill being passed as it is,&quot; said a statement released by his spokesman. And the CORD legislators particularly displayed their loyalty as they filled the chambers and opposed any amendment introduced to the Bills. Opposition MPs who had earlier proposed amendments to the bill dropped them, insisting that their party leader had read the entire bill and found it fit and requiring no form of amendments. &quot;&#39;Baba&#39; has read this bill and found it to be good and therefore I drop all amendments that I had proposed,&quot; said Homa Bay Town MP Peter Kaluma. Mr Kaluma also shouted down Justice and Legal Affairs Committee Chairman Samuel Chepkonga for insisting on moving the committee&#39;s amendments when it was apparent that the House was not in the mood to entertain any. &quot;Today is the day of the tyranny of the loyalists,&quot; added Kaluma, as he urged those with pending amendments to follow suit and drop them. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;