The ritual was elaborate and perplexing. Selected elders, youths and children from each side of the volatile border removed their shoes and stood still, on a yellow mat, their eyes glued to the scenic but troubled Nyando Valley. An eerie silence fell on the crowd that joined CORD leader Raila Odinga at the Kibigori grounds to witness the ritual as a Nandi elder, dressed in a black coat and armed with a special fly-whisk, stepped forward to administer the oath that would end decades of sporadic bloodshed between the two communities. The elder, his face glistening with sweat, then started smearing the feet of the ritual team &mdash; from both sides &mdash; with a special liquid; a mixture of milk and &lsquo;bala&rsquo; (lime). He uttered inaudible words as he administered the oath. SAME PLATE As he did this, two women emerged from a makeshift hut, carrying two gigantic sufurias containing special meal of lamb meat, prepared specifically for the ceremony. The elders, children and the youth in the ritual team ate from the same plate and drunk soup from the same cup to symbolise unity and forgiveness. To cap it all, two girls aged between 4 and 9, exchanged spears. The spear brought in by the Nandis was later handed over to Raila in recognition of his role as a peacemaker. READ MORE Research: Sex makes men more likely to believe in God Nakuru man loses bid to bury wife he left for 30 years Women leaders in race to claim stake in Nyanza politics A makeshift hut, where the paraphernalia were kept, was constructed without using a nail. Two young men from the two sides spent the Saturday night at the hut, with the door wide open as dictated by the customs. The ritual known in Luo as &ldquo;Ngado Guok&rdquo; (cutting the dog), is a medieval ceremony conducted among enemies to help end a war. The Sunday event was planned in secret. The milk was extracted from a special cow identified by the elders from both sides. &ldquo;We have done our part. You have witnessed it in broad daylight. It means the animosity between the Luos and Kalenjins is over. Whoever raises&nbsp; a club, a spear or panga against each other will have himself to blame,&rdquo; said Ali Bitok. Like the &lsquo;gods&rsquo;&nbsp; and &lsquo;godesses&rsquo; in Chinua Achebe&rsquo;s&nbsp; Things&nbsp; Fall Apart, the Luo and Nandi elders who administered the ritual vanished into the crowd as soon as they had a brief session with Raila. No one knows the message they whispered to the CORD leader. PLAYED PART Luo Council of Elders Chairman Willys Otondi echoed sentiments from his Nandi counterparts: &ldquo;We have played our part. We have spent nearly two months planning this ceremony. Let no one breach it. We want to see total peace and cooperation along the border because it is not a laughing matter.&rdquo; GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;