A new-look transit bus is stirring excitement and panic around the city of Nairobi. The long bus is already drawing in hundreds of curious passers-by, most of whom are amazed by its sheer size. Even before it is licenced to ply the city&rsquo;s routes, the passenger service vehicle (PSV) is sending cold chills down the spine of matatu operators, who say it will drive them out of business. The Ashok Leyland-made bus has a capacity of 130 passengers &mdash; 60 seated and about 70 standing and the latter will still find their ride comfortable than those seated in ordinary matatus. The bus is spacious &mdash; it has enough legroom to accommodate the tallest of passengers &mdash; and has fluffy seats, and fans on every window. For safety purposes, it has four emergency exits and First Aid kits, items required by law on every PSV but which most vehicles either lack or have but are not in working order. The bus, registered under the City Shuttle Company, was recently test-driven around the city by Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure and National Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA) officials. READ MORE Harun Mwau joins Nairobi gubernatorial race in 2017 elections Aviation student crash-lands aircraft at Nairobi National Park Six-lane Mombasa-Nairobi Highway bidding to start A handful of city residents were invited to board it from Mombasa Road to town, Community and Upper Hill areas. The journey started at the Truckmart showroom on Mombasa Road to the Central Business District, through to the Ministry of Infrastructure offices at Community, to NTSA offices in Upper Hill and ended in town. &ldquo;This is way better than matatus. I cannot even feel it negotiate a corner,&rdquo; said Caroline Gichui, one of lucky passengers on the vehicle&rsquo;s maiden trip in Nairobi. The bus, whose registered dealer in the country is Truckmart East Africa, requires the keenness of a pilot in a driver. After all, it is the size of a middle-sized passenger plane. The transit bus is 17 metres long, according to Mechul Sachdev of Truckmart EA. Put simply, it is like two buses conjoined with a spring-like disk device that makes it possible for the rear wheels to rotate just like the front ones for easy navigation. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;