CORD leader Raila Odinga addresses a rally at Lugusi market in Shinyalu Sub county on September 6, 2016. (Photo: Benjamin Sakwa/Standard) ODM leader Raila Odinga has reiterated he will contest the presidency in next year&#39;s elections. Raila Thursday told supporters in Kakamega County he will not back another candidate as has been claimed. The CORD co-principal was responding to concerns by the over 3,000 party supporters who pressed him to clarify claims he is planing to endorse another candidate for the presidency amid the ongoing jostling for the coalition&#39;s ticket. &quot;I have heard your voice and I will be on the ballot as you have demanded,&quot; Raila said during the fourth day of his tour of Kakamega Thursday. Apart from Raila, co-principals, Kalonzo Musyoka of Wiper and Moses Wetang&#39;ula of Ford Kenya are also eyeing the CORD ticket ahead of the 2017 General Election. READ MORE UK-based Kenyan politician to vie for presidency in 2017 elections Joho upbeat about ODM 'mega' celebrations The inconsistencies in opinion polling However, there have been reports CORD is wooing Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi giving rise to speculation that he could be the compromise candidate. Raila has since dismissed suggestions the coalition could hand the ticket to Mudavadi, prompting angry reactions from his running mate in the 2007 elections who retorted it was CORD that needed him to shore up its fortunes. Kalonzo, his running mate in 2013, and Wetangula, the Senate Minority Leader, have often protested the portrayal of Raila by his supporters as CORD&#39;s presumptive candidate. Thursday, in a resolution read at Bishop Stam in Lurambi, ODM officials resolved to embark on a fierce campaign to popularise Raila&#39;s candidature. They said Raila is the only leader in the Opposition capable of taking on President Uhuru Kenyatta in next year&#39;s polls. &quot;You are the only ideal leader in the Coalition for Reforms and Democracy to be the flag bearer,&quot; ODM Malava Chairman Mark Wanzala said. There have been claims by a section of CORD and Jubilee leaders recently that Raila is planning to endorse another presidential candidate, a matter&nbsp; ODM supporters and members in Kakamega wanted the Opposition leader to clarify. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;