Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has castigated political rivals for scuttling efforts by his administration to make health care services easily accessible and affordable to the locals. Speaking to the Standard on phone from London where he is representing the Council of Governs (CoG) in a local authorities forum, Oparanya argued that a nurses strike that paralysed services in the area was politically motivated. &quot;I know that Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale took advantage of the situation to settle scores with me because he is desperate and will use any slight opportunity to create trouble and confusion at the expense of the people,&quot; he said. At least 1,300 health workers boycotted work for eleven days, protesting against poor working conditions, delayed promotions and poor pay. The County referral hospital, level four hospitals, dispensaries and health facilities across the county remained deserted until the Kenya National Union of Nurses (KNUN) called off the strike. Addressing the press in Kakamega town, branch Secretary General, Renson Bulunya, said they agreed to suspend the strike for 21 days and give room for dialogue with the county government representatives. &quot;If the issues that we have raised will not be solved within on expiry of that period, we shall advise our members to down tools again,&quot; explained Bulunya. READ MORE Eldoret health workers to down tools in two weeks Nurses are the backbone of Kenya&rsquo;s health system but remain neglected &lsquo;Come back home&rsquo;, Kakamega County family&rsquo;s plea to lost kin According to Oparanya, Kakamega County is among those that offer health workers conducive working environment and friendly terms. &quot;We have made huge strides as a government in health but the problem has been that some people wish to drag politics into serious issues.&quot; He said those who thought would get political mileage and settle scores for their own selfish interests were wrong. &quot;Now they don&#39;t know what to do next after the matter was resolved amicably and nurses reported to their work stations,&quot; argued Oparanya. Dr Khalwale and the Kenya National Union of Nurses Secretary General Panyako had earlier met the striking nurses and urged them to fight on until their grievances are addressed in full. &quot;Nurses are asking to be absorbed as permanent staff, provided with friendly working environment and be promoted which is realistic since health is fully devolved and funds meant to undertake all that is available,&quot; Khalwale said. The County health executive Peninah Mukabane threatened to sack all the striking health workers and went further to advertise over 250 positions to replace them. &quot;The county government invites applications from suitably qualified persons to fill the vacant positions of nursing officers and registered nurses,&quot; read part of the advert GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;