Narok Governor Samuel Ole Tunai has said the county was not up for grab as it was a Jubilee zone, adding that President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto have interest of the Maa community at heart. Tunai who spoke at Olokirkirai Primary school where he contributed Sh1million during a fundraiser in aid of business people who incurred losses due to a fire disaster told off opposition ODM claims that Narok was their &#39;stronghold&#39;. This comes barely weeks after CORD Principals led by ODM Leader Raila Odinga and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula made in-routes to the county which is perceived to be a swing vote. In a bid to woo the community to their side, the CORD leaders pledged to address historical land injustices that has bedeviled the community and which the previous four successive regimes including Jubilee had failed to address. &quot;Jubilee Party is for all Kenyans regardless of tribe, religion or otherwise. As Narok we have had good working relationship with the national government and key projects are on the pipeline and will soon be launched by the President,&quot; said Tunai. Tunai said road projects that are in progress include the Ewuasonyiro-Sekenani road which is a tourist road, Kisiriri-Mau Narok which is an Agricultural road as well as a host of feeder roads that have contractors on site. READ MORE ODM fights to lock out Jubilee in Kisii Jubilee starts talks to unite gubernatorial aspirants Governor Mvurya under pressure after defecting to Jubilee He said the Jubilee administration has also made big strides in resolving perennial land problems in the county adding that many title deeds have been issued to residents in many parts of the county such as Kipise group ranch, Ong&#39;ata Naado. &quot;We have held talks with Lands CS Jacob Kaimenyi and agreed that title deeds will be issued to all residents in this county before the next general election,&quot; said Tunai. The Governor has however appealed to all communities living within the county to avoid leaders who are out to divide them as 2017 general election nears. &quot;We understand that our farmers incurred heavy losses due to fall in crop and livestock prices as a result of change of weather. We as local leaders have asked the President to waive about Sh500 million loans by Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) for them so they can go back to farming and we hope he shall do so,&quot; said Tunai.