The Government has put in place security measures for the Mashujaa Day celebrations to be held in Machakos County. Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho said on Tuesday that all logistics issues for the celebrations such as security, traffic flow and general protocol procedures have been completed. &quot;All rehearsals for the day&#39;s occasion have been done and gates to the celebrations venue- Kenyatta Stadium- will be open to the public as early as 5.30am tomorrow,&quot; Kibicho told journalists at a breakfast briefing in Machakos. He said citizens are expected to be seated inside the stadium by 8.30am, where entertainments will commence awaiting the arrival of President Uhuru Kenyatta at exactly 10 am same day. Kibicho said optimum security coverage at the event has been made both inside and outside the 20,000 capacity stadium. &quot;We have also enhanced security coverage through CCTV surveillance from Chumvi to Machakos Town,&quot; he said. Motorists driving into and through Machakos to various destinations will experience some interruption following new traffic flow schedule that has been released to enhance orderly movement and security. READ MORE International riders jet in as third edition of Tour De Machakos offers Sh1million prize money Interior PS faults Bungoma County for legalising busaa trade Governor Lusaka defends consumption of busaa in Bungoma Giving out details of the traffic schedule Eastern Regional Coordinator Richard Ogalo said some roads will be closed Thursday morning. For instance, vehicles from Nairobi to Machakos Town will be diverted through Machakos Teachers&#39; Training College to Kangundo Road which will then head to Mjini area in Machakos town. Vehicles from Makueni will turn off at Vota then join Mombasa road at Katumani-Vota junction. Alternatively, motorists may take Katumani-Vota road then proceed to Nairobi. Those travelling to Makueni will use Mombasa road and divert towards Vota and join up Wote junction road. From Kitui to Nairobi, traffic will divert at Kennol petrol station towards Machakos Hospital and proceed to Katumani-Vota junction and join Mombasa road through Vota. &quot;We have made considerations to ensure there is minimum interference for motorists while at the same time ensuring optimum security for all,&quot; said Ogalo.