Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump&rsquo;s campaign accused the White House of downplaying the threat poised by the Islamic State. The nominee now seeks to lay blame following a series of weekend bombs and other incidents. &ldquo;Diminishing the threat the Obama administration has allowed to materialise on its watch puts us all at risk and is another reminder that we need new leadership in the fight against radical Islamic terrorism,&rdquo; Trump&rsquo;s spokesman Jason Miller said in a statement. Trump&rsquo;s Democratic rival, Hillary Clinton, held a news conference yesterday morning to address the attack. The statement followed a weekend in which a bomb went off in New York City&rsquo;s Chelsea neighbourhood, injuring 29 people, and another explosive device was found nearby. As many as six explosive devices were found in nearby Elizabeth, New Jersey, and a pipe bomb exploded near a New Jersey shore town further south. READ MORE Trump proposes disarming Clinton guards Clinton leads Trump as Americans shrug off her pneumonia scare Trump believes Obama was born in the United States In another incident, a man stabbed nine people at a central Minnesota mall on Saturday before being shot dead by an off-duty policeman. On Sunday, Islamic State claimed responsibility, calling the man &ldquo;a soldier,&rdquo; and the FBI said it was investigating the attack as a potential act of terrorism. Reuters could not verify the claim of responsibility. Since the bomb exploded in Chelsea on Saturday night, Clinton and Trump have exchanged criticism about who would best handle the nation&rsquo;s security. Trump was criticised by both Democrats and Republicans for describing the explosion as a bomb shortly after the blast, before federal or New York City officials confirmed that as the cause. Hours later, Clinton made her own public statement in which she appeared to scold Trump for commenting before officials were able to determine what caused the explosion. Trump, who has based much of his campaign message on arguing that the United States is no longer safe and that he alone can protect the nation, told Fox News on Monday morning that he expects more attacks. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;