NAIROBI: Two weeks ago Kenyans woke to Sunday morning breaking news that three suspected female terrorists had attacked a police station in Mombasa. The news media was awash with condemnation and the girls were even shot dead under circumstances that are not yet clear. A video image circulating later on social media and posted on the website of a major newspaper showed a different story. Stories that later emerged suggested that probably the girls were innocent and their death was unfortunately a case of extra judicial killing. Besides that, the police were very quick making their identities known even before meaningful investigations were done. This incident is an example of how revealing identities of suspects can be dangerous. Even though in the Mombasa incident the suspects were killed, their family members and other close associates could become victims of stigmization. In this column I want to address the issue of revealing a suspects identity before indictment. Reporting restrictions should be imposed to prevent the routine naming of suspects by police until they have been charged. READ MORE Panic as dozens of private colleges now face closure Three girls charged for concealing information about police raid Police accuse Rogo&rsquo;s wife of failing to stop crime In Kenya there is the habit of the media and law enforcement agencies revealing the identities of suspects. This sometimes has severe consequences for the suspects if proven innocent. Figure this out; recently a suspect was charged with defilement of a minor. Upon being released on bond he refused to leave the police cells because he was afraid for his life. His image had been splashed all over through the electronic, social and print media. Afterwards there was word that the case was about business rivalry between two schools. I cannot confirm whether this is true, but the bottom line is premature revelation of the identity of a suspect can have severe consequences for the safety of the individual concerned. Of course sweeping powers held by the police to keep those arrested secret can also be dangerous and might encourage extra-judicial activities. The law that ensures relatives of arrested suspect are informed and given access to the suspect must be strengthened. Under Article 50(2) of the Constitution the accused will at all times be presumed innocent until proven guilty by a court of law. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;