CORD leader Raila Odinga has told Opposition leaders set to defect to leave immediately, on a day his allies questioned the source of funding for Jubilee Party&rsquo;s lavish launch. Raila Wednesday claimed the ruling coalition had compromised CORD members on the back of reports that 35 MPs and five governors will decamp to Jubilee during the launch of President Uhuru Kenyatta&#39;s new party on Saturday. &quot;Let those who want to leave the party go away immediately to create space for others. When they leave, more are ready to join us. Some MPs have failed to perform their duties and they are now running to hide in Jubilee, arguing that they are seeking development. ODM is not shaken by their decisions to quit and join Jubilee,&quot; he told a meeting in Kakamega. In Nairobi, ODM MPs Thomas Mwadeghu (Wundanyi), Junet Mohammed (Suna East), Timothy Bosire (Kitutu Masaba), Abdikadir Ore (Wajir West) and Victor Mwololo (Voi) challenged the Jubilee administration to declare the source of funds for its display of opulence ahead of the Jubilee Party launch. &quot;This past one week we have seen a massive primitive display of resources by Jubilee in preparation for its merger on Saturday. We find this display of wealth at odds with the state of the nation. We demand they tell Kenyans the source of the funds,&quot; said Mr Mohammed, who read a joint statement. &quot;The majority of parties that have joined Jubilee are largely briefcase parties that were struggling to secure even office space just the other day. They can&#39;t be the source of the funds,&quot; he continued. READ MORE All systems go for Jubilee grand party launch Coast professionals hit out at Governor Mvurya for backing Jubilee Divorce party affairs from functions of State &quot;We are witnessing the return of the politics of money of the kind last seen in 1992 and 1997. How did a party yet to be born acquire a building of that value, vehicles, posters, Sh10,000 per delegate per day and the many other goodies being displayed?&quot; asked Mohammed. The MP said the Government had recently borrowed money to finance infrastructural projects, but now, it had the money to splash out on a new building and vehicles. The ODM legislators also want Jubilee to assure Kenyans that its activities will not lead to the kind of inflation that was witnessed in the country after the 1992 elections. &quot;We want Jubilee to assure Kenyans that it is not going to print money; if it has not started doing so out of desperation,&quot; read part of the statement. The MPs warned in the event that the source of funds was not disclosed by Saturday, then the refusal would confirm to Kenyans that the Eurobond money was indeed stolen. But Jubilee merger co-chairmen Kiraitu Murungi and Noah Wekesa dismissed the claims by the Opposition that the Government was using State resources to finance its three-day launch. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;