President Uhuru Kenyatta does not want to implement the Truth Justice and Reconciliation Commission (TJRC) report due to personal interests. CORD leader Raila Odinga said Kenyatta directed &#39;strange rage&#39; at him on Wednesday to divert attention from the matter. Uhuru and Raila engaged in a verbal exchange during the burial of veteran politician William ole Ntimama in Narok after the opposition chief demanded implementation of the TJRC report. &quot;There is something about the report that is so personal and grossly objectionable to the Presidency and the Jubilee regime,&quot; Raila said through his communication director Dennis Onyango. He wondered why talk of the report always appears to trigger a very personal response from the Head of State. &quot;It is important for the political leadership of the national government to understand the same pain they feel every time this report is mentioned is the same pain communities and individuals who put their hopes for justice in this report feel because of its delayed implementation,&quot; said Raila. READ MORE President Uhuru Kenyatta signs law to pick new IEBC commissioners I stand by my statement about Mr Kenyatta, says CJ hopeful Mutua Ban on Kenyan miraa ill-advised He said the people at the Coast and the Maasai want justice over their land and other heritages and he&#39;ll not stop CORD from pushing for the implementation of the report. He noted many families are still waiting for the truth about the assassination of their loved ones by the State, including residents of northern Kenya, who lost family members in the Wagalla massacre. &quot;It is Mr Odinga&#39;s position that anger, personal attacks and procrastination will neither take these matters away nor resolve them. The only solution is with the implementation of the TJRC report which is with the Presidency. Mr Odinga will not be silenced or blackmailed on this report and will continue demanding it&#39;s implementation,&quot; Mr Onyango said. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi condemned the public spat between Uhuru and Raila. &quot;The President&#39;s remarks were a confirmation of my long-held view Jubilee is a government for the few, not all Kenyans,&quot; Mudavadi said. ODM chairman John Mbadi, Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale and Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi termed Uhuru&#39;s remarks as insults to Kenyans who pay tax to get services.