Kenya Airways (KQ) lost at least Sh3.2 billion through purchase of expensive jet fuel between 2013 and 2015, an audit has found. Initial findings of the forensic audit by Deloitte Consulting Ltd showed the airline chose to buy her fuel through a &ldquo;flawed jet fuel procurement process&rdquo;. This denied the national carrier the much-needed savings that were being enjoyed by other airlines who were buying their fuel through the African Airlines Association (Afraa). &ldquo;It is the responsibility of the jet fuel procurement manager, as well as the head of supply chain, to ensure that KQ always obtains the best possible prices for any products purchased. In addition, these same individuals are part of the Afraa tender committee, responsible for procuring on behalf of the association,&rdquo; says Deloitte. Price bargains Afraa was formed in 2008, but only became operational in 2012 when it first began to procure jet fuel on behalf of its members. READ MORE Apology Top detective rules out NYS hacking claim in loss of Sh791m Activist Boniface Mwangi dares DP to sue him for defamation The association provides airlines with a better bargaining position with the fuel suppliers by combining all the volumes of the member airlines and procuring the fuel as a single unit. The result of this arrangement was price bargains for each of the member airlines owing to the fact that the fuel prices are highly dependent on the volumes purchased. The report shows KQ could have saved Sh3.2 billion at the current exchange rates if it had obtained similar prices as Afraa did. &ldquo;The fact that KQ was not able to obtain better prices or even similar prices to the prices obtained by Afraa is evidence of a flawed procurement process. This is compounded by the fact that KQ consumes significantly higher volumes of fuel than Afraa in Kenya,&rdquo; the report adds. Deloitte did at least 10 reports on different sections of the airline from procurement, ticketing, special purpose vehicles, and jet fuel procurement. The purchases were happening at a time when the airline was sinking deeper and deeper in losses. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;