Detectives from outside Kitui County have been sent to investigate the brutal murder of a patient inside a hospital ward. The officers from Nairobi, Machakos and Embu will investigate the killing by gunmen of Fredrick Musyimi, 27, at Mwingi Level Four Hospital. &quot;It is true we have taken up the matter but that is all I can say,&quot; said a CID officer based in Machakos. Despite saying they collected 17 empty cartridges at the scene of the chilling murder, local security officers have remained largely mum over the murder. &quot;You should wait until the matter is conclusively investigated and you will be adequately briefed,&quot; said Kitui County Commissioner Boaz Cherotich. Meanwhile, Musyimi&#39;s sister Sharlyne Malia who witnessed his brother being shot dead in his hospital bed has claimed that the men who killed her brother are after her. READ MORE Man kills son in row with estranged wife Police on the spot in Mwingi hospital killing Male suspect in 1983 murders may be living in L.A. as a woman On Saturday morning, she slithered out of a family meeting at Kathiani village in Kitui West, after claiming that two men came looking for her. &quot;A man claiming to be a CID officer had earlier called me saying there were new developments on my brother&#39;s killing and wanted us to meet. He also claimed two people who were police officers based in Mwingi had been arrested over the killing and wanted me to go and identify the suspects,&quot; Malia, who visited Standard Group offices in Nairobi after escaping home said. IPOA Chairman Macharia Njeru told us that his office would only be able to offer Malia protection today. Police spokesman Charles Owino had referred our inquiries to IPOA. Meanwhile, nurses and clinical officers at the hospital have demanded a full-time armed police guard following last Wednesday&#39;s killing of the patient. The medical workers on Friday night stormed out of wards and boycotted work after two strange men were spotted inside the ward where Musyimi was brutally murdered. According to senior nurse Ken Muriuki, the two men who refused to talk or answer any questions from hospital staff, visited the ward only two days after the heinous murder. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;