Many women in active politics in the Rift Valley region have expressed interest in the competitive governor and senator positions. This is in stark contrast to the last elections where they crowded for the constitutionally created post of county woman representative. The Constitution gave women a boost following the formation of women representative slots that saw them compete for the 47 positions across the country; it was a females-only battle. With the present political activities in the region, the narrative is likely to change as women brave the murky waters of titanic competition against their male counterparts to be the next senators, governors and county assembly members. Stacey Chepkemoi, 23, believed to be the youngest Senate contender for Bomet, will be running against political heavyweights including the incumbent, Wilson Lesan. Ms Chepkemoi, who is also the county executive for Agribusiness Enterprise and the Bomet youth president, believes that anyone has a chance to represent the electorate at any level irrespective of gender. READ MORE Kenyan politicians in race to control funds Why other counties need to learn from Nairobi&rsquo;s mistakes Officials suspended for delayed road projects Her interest in the male dominated seats is driven by a desire to transform agriculture in her region along with ensuring that the youth docket is fully devolved so that youths can benefit from job opportunities and empowerment. &ldquo;I am fully in the race and my aim is to ensure that policies are in place to propel equal representation for both women and youths,&rdquo; she noted. &ldquo;I also want to fight for the reversal of the growing wage bill and prove to my male counterparts that women can do better in leadership and they should be elected, not just nominated.&rdquo; In Nandi County, Yulita Mitei, a lecturer at the University of Eldoret, is contesting for the governorship in a crowded race that has attracted bigwigs including former cabinet ministers Felix Koskei and Henry Kosgei. They are also facing the incumbent, Cleophas Lagat. Better managers Her mission is to send a message that women are better managers and leaders than men, and they should not be discriminated against or intimidated. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;