Murang&rsquo;a leaders have arm-twisted the government into parting with Sh250 million in exchange for their support of the controversial Sh6.8 billion water project. Led by Governor Mwangi wa Iria yesterday, the leaders had openly threatened to withhold their support for the Northern Collector Water Tunnel (NCWT) project until their demands were met. Water Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa offered each of the five water companies in Murang&rsquo;a Sh50 million to improve water distribution to address the concerns raised by area residents about water scarcity once the project to divert some water from three rivers to Nairobi is implemented. The leaders secured the concession after a meeting in Nairobi that lasted six hours. Opposition leader Raila Odinga raised the alarm a week ago, claiming that the &ldquo;tunnels of death&rdquo; would expose several counties to drought. But Murang&rsquo;a leaders initially dismissed Raila&rsquo;s concerns, asking him to stop seeking political mileage using the project. READ MORE Governor Mwangi wa Iria pleads with locals to support his re-election Officials suspended for delayed road projects Fears of vacuum as experienced MPs scramble for governorship around Kenya EARLIER POSITION Yesterday, Murang&rsquo;a Senator Kembi Gitura denounced his earlier position against the project, arguing that he was quoted wrongly and that he only had reservations on particular issues. However, the governor and area MPs openly expressed their discontent with the project, pressing the government to do &lsquo;something&rsquo; for their people or forget their support for the project intended to boost water supply to Nairobi. Among their demands was ensuring that all households in Murang&rsquo;a got piped water and that Nairobi County would be made to pay their county an abstraction fee. This is the amount paid on the grounds that Nairobi is benefiting from the county&rsquo;s natural resources. Under the project, the water in three Murang&rsquo;a rivers - Irati, Gikigie and Maragua - will be diverted at source to Ndakaini Dam through an 11.8km-long tunnel to boost supply to Nairobi by up to 140,000 cubic metres daily. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;