About a month ago, Saul Obwanda was a frail, demoralised and hopeless young man. The orphan had just lost a chance to study civil and mechanical engineering at Kenyatta University due to lack of fees and had resorted to working in his aunt&#39;s posho mill located in Railways Estate in Kisumu, for no pay. But a new chapter was opened in the life of the 24-year-old last week, thanks to a story about his tribulations published by The Standard on July 22. Following the story, Savannah Cement offered him a scholarship for his entire five years of study. According to the company&#39;s managers, the scholarship will cover tuition fees, accommodation, learning facilities and upkeep. The company has also provided a medical cover within the company&#39;s medical scheme and an internship opportunity throughout the study period. Savannah Cement Managing Director Ronald Ndegwa said the scholarship was awarded as part of the company&#39;s social investment policy. &quot;I am also glad that several members of management and staff have agreed to join me in mentoring Obwanda throughout his academic programme,&quot; said Mr Ndegwa. Obwanda did his Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) exams in 2012 and scored a straight A (82 out of a possible 84 points). He was admitted to Kenyatta University where he was expected to report in 2013. But he was unable to raise the required fees by the registration date and opted to defer his studies for a year, but was still unable to raise the money. A third deferral attempt flopped after the university informed him that only two deferrals were allowed. But on Monday last week, the former Nairobi School student was among 10,000 freshers who thronged Kenyatta University to begin their studies in various courses. &quot;I still do not believe this is me going through the admission process. I think God&#39;s miracles work in ways I cannot comprehend. I have witnessed miracles in the last one month,&quot; said Obwanda. MET FRIENDS GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;