It was an ugly sight at William ole Ntimama&rsquo;s funeral. President Uhuru Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga had a political stand-off in front of the grieving family and other mourners. For some reason this seemed normal. The media coverage was keen to highlight the sensational &ldquo;continue salivating&rdquo; put down of Raila by Kenyatta. No one seemed perturbed by the total crassness of political squabbling by our two most prominent politicians even as a man lay ready to be buried. This, of course, is not new. The funerals of prominent individuals have always been charged political events in Kenya. More often than not they serve as occasions for surviving politicians to lay claim to the political kingdom of the departed. Having been the self-appointed voice of the Maasai for a long time, Ntimama&rsquo;s funeral was always going to be a political affair. But the normalcy of this all should not dull our minds. Politicking at funerals is singularly disrespectful and gross. Full stop. Why do our politicians continue to do it anyway? For the simple reason that they lack respect for regular wananchi. It takes a special level of self-obsession to imagine that people turn up to funerals to hear you talk politics. Forget the pain of loss experienced by families of the dead. Forget the need for self-reflection as a country when someone with a chequered political history like Ntimama passes on. All our ethnic chiefs ever care about is grabbing the political base of the departed. They never pause to think of the consequences of their actions. They never pause to think of how such deaths can be used as teachable moments to make our Jamuhuri better. I pick on President Kenyatta and Premier Raila because they should know better. By all accounts the two are gentlemen with deep capacities for self-reflection. They also occupy special places in the hearts and minds of most Kenyans. We should therefore expect nothing short of the best possible representation or our shared values as a country. And so when they muckrake at a funeral it is doubly disappointing. It demeans our politics. It demeans us as a people. And it reinforces a harmful habit as part and parcel of our political culture. As a country we eat, breathe, drink, and sleep politics. We see politics everywhere. And the consequence of this has been that a total failure to think objectively about matters of national importance. We don&rsquo;t listen to experts. We don&rsquo;t trust data. We prefer to take advice from ethnic praise singers and quacks. This is precisely why we need more apolitical spaces &mdash; like funerals, church services, sporting events, cultural festivals, national celebrations, and technicality competent policy think tanks. This may seem na&iuml;ve. After all, nothing is ever truly apolitical. But I believe that we can accept this reality but still commit ourselves to performing a non-political display of national unity and a concern for the common good. The country needs this badly. And it has to start at the top. READ MORE CORD defectors left hanging as opposition vows to lock them out Raila: I&rsquo;ve no apologies over fiery exchange with President Uhuru Raila: Why Uhuru has refused to implement TJRC report years later As we prepare for elections next August, Raila and Kenyatta will be at it again. These are the choices we have. Let&rsquo;s stop wishing that we had better politicians. Instead, we should demand that these two individuals get their act together. A convenient place to start should be to look at how they run their campaigns. Disorganised campaigns will likely produce disorganised administrations lacking policy coherence. Candidates who spew hate on podiums will likely divide Kenyans if elected. Our politics should not always be about scoring cheap points, regardless of the occasion. Politics should be about collectively organising to solve our most pressing problems.