Police yesterday stormed a house and shot dead &lsquo;most wanted&rsquo; terror suspect&nbsp;Ismail Mohamed Soshi in Mombasa. According to police, Shoshi had links with&nbsp;Harun Fazul, an Al Qaeda operative who was killed in Somalia in 2011, and the&nbsp;Jaysh Ayman militant group that was behind the low level insurgency in Boni Forest&nbsp;of Lamu County. Soshi who had a Sh2 million bounty on his head was killed&nbsp;in a gunfight with the police at Kishada area of Kisauni.&nbsp; Police yesterday stormed a house in Mombasa and shot dead a fugitive terror suspect. Ismail Mohamed Soshi was killed in a gunfight with the police in Kishada, Kisauni. Police said there was a Sh2 million bounty on Soshi&rsquo;s head and blamed him for a series of killings targeting police officers, intelligence officers and tourists in Mombasa. He was suspected of being behind the killing of Simon Lochodo, a police officer who was shot dead while guarding a bank in Bondeni on February 2, 2015. READ MORE Blasts kill at least 17 in Baghdad: police, medics Unidentified explosion rocks Hungary's capital, two injured Two policemen still missing after al-Shabaab gunmen attacked Hamey police post Soshi is also blamed for the assassination of retired Police Sergeant Mohamed Shaad in the same area on September 18 last year. Soshi was also held responsible for the murders of a tourist in Mombasa&rsquo;s Old town late in 2014, and Hisham Salman Ali, an intelligence officer killed as he emerged from An Nisa Mosque in Mombasa&rsquo;s Old Town on July 3, 2015. He was also wanted for the killing of Police Sergeant Mohamed Ibrahim Ali, who was attached to the anti-terror police unit, inside a restaurant in Mombasa&rsquo;s Old town on March 26 last year. Police claim all these murders were committed using different rifles fired by Soshi, who was alleged to be a Somalia-trained assassin. &ldquo;He, alongside his brother, Ikrima Mohamed Soshi, were the main suspects behind the killings,&rdquo; said Kisauni OCPD Richard Ngatia. Ikrima is said to be in hiding. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;