Nairobi gubernatorial hopefuls have started hunting for running mates ahead of the 2017 General Election. Some front runners say they are consulting widely to identify individuals who will boost their chances of winning the seat. Yesterday, Dagoretti South MP Dennis Waweru said he is engaging like-minded politicians in the city to put up a &ldquo;winning team.&rdquo; &ldquo;I am already having talks and I am sure of putting up a winning team,&rdquo; he said after a meeting with a section of Gusii leaders. The Gusii delegation was led by Evans Ondieki, a former Environment minister in Nairobi County Government. The meeting fell short of proposing Mr Ondieki as Mr Waweru&rsquo;s running mate. On talks that he could work with nominated MP Johnstone Sakaja, who is also eying the governorship, in forming an alliance, the MP said: &ldquo;I am very open for any discussions and I am willing to work with anybody.&rdquo; Former Starehe MP Margret Wanjiru had last Sunday hinted at working together with Water Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa. READ MORE Revenue sharing module biased, says Kidero Breaking impasse on IEBC good for country The political silly season of ethnic arithmetic is here with us again &ldquo;I have been looking for a running mate from the Luhya community and I also heard Mr Wamalwa has been looking for a running mate from Central. This is a platform for us to work together,&rdquo; she said. Other aspirants include the incumbent Evans Kidero, Nairobi Senator Mike Mbuvi Sonko, nominated MP Johnston Sakaja, former aide to Raila Odinga, Miguna Miguna and the latest entrant Esther Passaris. Ethnic arithmetic And with the country&rsquo;s politics still largely tribal, partnering with a majority community in the city is a plus to any contestant in tilting the arithmetic. This explains why most aspirants are hunting for running mates from the Luhya community. In the last polls, Kidero was largely supported by the Luo, Luhya and Kisii communities that handed him a win against Jubilee&rsquo;s Ferdinand Waititu. Leading governor aspirants have started holding meetings with elected and opinion leaders from various communities in an effort to endear themselves to voters from across ethnic groups. Some have been engaging the leaders to come up with a political deal that could see them trade seats. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;