Hopes that the country is well on its way to full electoral reforms dimmed furtherThursday as it emerged that some of the timelines set by the new electoral laws may be unrealistic. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) has raised the red flag on the practicability of some of the timelines set by the new electoral laws.Procurement of poll equipment at least eight months to the August 8, 2017 General Election as stipulated in the Electoral Laws (Amendment) Act, 2016, is among deadlines that are &ldquo;unattainable&rdquo;, according to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. According the electoral laws, the equipment must be procured at least 8 months before the elections. The polls are 10 months away. The law states that these equipment must be tested, verified and deployed by February 8, next year. According to a political deal agreed by Coalition for Reforms and Democracy (CORD) and Jubilee, the new electoral commissioners were to be in office by today. READ MORE Raila woos Maasai, calls for &lsquo;six-piece&rsquo; voting Talks hitch as poll team exit plan drags on Kenya's opposition must prove its mettle But the nine officials led by Issack Hassan are still in office haggling over an exit package with the Government. The new law requires the establishment of over 30,000 new polling stations, which will raise the cost of managing next year&#39;s polls to at least Sh50.8 billion up from Sh45 billion initially budgeted. The new electoral law signed by President Uhuru Kenyatta on September 15 has capped the number of voters per polling station at 500 voters. Based on the new requirement, IEBC is to manage a total of 56,000 polling stations in the 2017 General Election. This is double the number of polling stations in the 2013 polls which was 24,000 stations. According to IEBC, the cost of managing a single station is about Sh180,000, excluding capital investment in election technology, putting the increase in cost at Sh5.8 billion. In its election operation plan released in January, the electoral body placed its total cost at Sh45 billion. Out of this, Sh4.5 billion is earmarked for electoral technologies. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;