The Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) yesterday began the process of weeding out those it says have defected to Jubilee Party. As this process was taking place at the Orange House in Nairobi, the Registrar of Political Parties Lucy Ndung&rsquo;u announced that leaders of political outfits that had merged with the Jubilee Party were now formally with the new party when the 30-day deadline to challenge the dissolution lapsed yesterday. At Orange House yesterday, the ODM disciplinary committee met with the lawyer of these leaders Kioko Kilukumi to fast-track the disciplinary process. After this meeting, the chairman of the ODM Elections Board Junet Mohammed said there would be no going back on the decision to expel them from the party. Mr Junet, the Suna East MP, said they would brief the National Executive Council (NEC) next week on the process to begin de-registering the defectors. However, there appeared to be some confusion as to whether the process to de-register them had started as it emerged that these elected leaders were asked to appear before the disciplinary committee in person next Friday. The politicians, who ODM has described as rebels, asked that the meeting be held somewhere else since they felt Orange House is unsafe. READ MORE Our tours in opposition areas bearing fruit, claims DP William Ruto ODM defectors fail to honour summons citing their security at Orange House CORD united to kick Jubilee out of power, says Wetang'ula Through their lawyer, the leaders pushed the disciplinary committee chaired by Fred Athuok to postpone the meeting to next Friday. &ldquo;We had our first meeting with their counsel today. They requested to have the meeting postponed to another day. We have considered their requests and agreed to have it at the Intercontinental Hotel on October 14 where the members will appear in person,&rdquo; said former National Assembly Deputy Speaker Farah Maalim at Orange House. Mr Maalim&rsquo;s statement contradicted one that had been issued by Junet, the chairman of the Elections Board. Junet said the process of their removal from the party started&nbsp; a while back and what they were doing now were mere formalities. &ldquo;Consider that the process of kicking them out is already on course. We will soon dispense with them, we are getting closer to de-registering them. We will not allow that political fraud,&rdquo; said Junet. ODM has stated repeatedly it will push to have the defectors elected on an Orange ticket de-registered from the party. The defectors include Ukur Yatan (Marsabit Governor), Salim Mvurya ( Kwale Governor) Joash Maangi (Kisii Deputy Governor), MPs Zainabu Chidzuga (Kwale Woman Representative), Steven Kariuki (Mathare), Mpuru Aburi (Tigania East), Gideon Mung&rsquo;aro (Kilifi North), Mustafa Iddi (Kilifi South), Cyprian Kubai (Igembe Central), Isaac Mwaura (Nominated), James Rege (Karachuonyo), Samuel Arama (Nakuru Town West) and John Waluke (Sirisia). GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;