ODM chairman John Mbadi is staring at what appears his biggest challenger in defending his Suba Constituency seat. Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga&rsquo;s aide and owner of Orange House, the building that houses Mbadi and his ODM officials, has set eyes on the parliamentary seat, setting the stage for a fierce battle between the two party leader&rsquo;s close allies. The entry of Caroli Omondi, a top Raila aide when he was Prime Minister, will undoubtedly be a litmus test for ODM and how it conducts its nominations. Mbadi, who was first elected in 2007, beat Omondi in the party nominations. Omondi, the former Chief of Staff in the office of the Prime Minister and a lawyer christened &ldquo;Dangote&rdquo; for his financial muscle, also lost to Moses Kajwang&rsquo; in the nominations for Homa Bay Senate by-election in January last year. Mbadi and Omondi are already throwing barbs at each other, if only to show who is more loyal to the party. Omondi boasts that in 2013, Mbadi was only re-elected because he did not vie and that he offered direct financial support to all ODM candidates countrywide at a total of Sh92 million, direct support to the presidential campaign kitty (Sh175 million) and direct support in terms of materials such as T-shirts (Sh200 million). READ MORE Migori Governor Okoth Obado&rsquo;s new ODM office stirs debate We shall not be cowed, defiant MPs tell Orange party ODM, registrar ordered to appear for parties funding case &ldquo;Mbadi was re-elected not because he was popular, but because there was no alternative since I did not run, despite the people asking me to,&rdquo; he says. He also blames flawed nominations for his loss to Kajwang&rsquo;. &ldquo;People are bitter that with all these contributions, ODM could not even let me be a senator and so the Suba people have decided I must be the MP,&rdquo; Omondi says. He insists he will still run on an ODM ticket, but with a condition. Queue voting &ldquo;Because ODM&rsquo;s nominations are always bungled, in Suba the nominations will be different and that is what the people demand, that they are done through queue voting,&rdquo; Omondi says. He accuses Mbadi of using his party chairmanship to go around the constituency, endorsing other politicians right from the incumbent governor to MCA aspirants. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;