NAIROBI: The Government has raised the alarm over the low suppression levels of HIV among children and adolescents. At the same time, teachers and parents have come under fire for not doing much to suppress the spread of the virus. Despite adolescents contributing up to 30 per cent of new infections, Ministry of Health Director of Medical Services Jackson Kioko said their suppression rate only stood at 63 per cent. The rate among children was said to stand at 69 per cent. The low suppression level in these two populations is 15 per cent lower compared to the national average that stands at 84 per cent. &ldquo;HIV Cohort analysis shows that our viral load suppression rates are at the range of 83 per cent,&rdquo; said Mr Kioko. &ldquo;However, suppression rates for children and adolescents, which stand at 69 and 63 per cent respectively, are a challenge and we must do more in this area.&rdquo; National Aids STI and Control Programme (Nascop) Director Martin Sirengo said some parents and teachers were to blame for the current situation. READ MORE Fight against HIV and AIDS Study underscores benefits of starting ARV treatment early Bill Gates lauds the Global Fund as it raises $13 billion to fight disease &ldquo;It is a regulation that when students open school, their luggage is inspected for any &lsquo;strange&rsquo; items. We have had cases of students&rsquo; Antiretroviral (ARVs) drugs being confiscated,&rdquo; said Dr Sirengo. &ldquo;Sometimes, they are even denied visitation or permission to seek treatment (check-ups) and pick their medicine, which increases the chances of them defaulting on taking the lifesaving medication,&rdquo; he added. Failure to take the medicine as prescribed usually leads to damage of the immune system by opportunistic diseases hence the low suppression levels. There are 180,000 adolescents living positively in schools. However, more than 75,000 are not accessing ARVs. According to the latest study by a Kenyan researcher, Thumbi Ndung&rsquo;u, individuals who start on ARVs early are able to suppress the virus up to 84 per cent hence reduce the possibility of infecting negative partners.