A Senate committee has proposed a new legal requirement for governors seeking to defend their seats in next year&#39;s polls.&nbsp; Monday, the Senate Public Accounts Committee proposed to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to introduce an accountability compliance certificate for individuals seeking county positions. Committee chairman and Kisumu Senator Anyang&#39; Nyong&#39;o said some county executives were misusing public resources and suggested the requirement be made mandatory to block some of them who cannot account for resources allocated to their devolved units. Currently, individuals seeking elective posts are required to obtain an ethics certificate, a tax compliance certificate, a certificate of good conduct and a Helb clearance certificate among other legal requirements. The committee said there was no legal requirement specifically targeting county leaders since the current requirements were all functions of the national government. The senators suggested the Auditor General&#39;s Office, Controller of Budget and Commission of Revenue Allocation as some of the agencies that can issue certificate of clearance to county leaders. READ MORE Former IG David Kimaiyo to vie for Elgeyo Marakwet Senate seat Jubilee leaders step in to avert fallout over governor's job Nominations headache splits ODM leaders &quot;If these three come together then they can give clearance certificate that you have used your budget appropriately during the time you have served,&quot; said Prof Nyong&#39;o. This proposal is, however, set to raise eyebrows over conflict of interest as nearly half of the senators have indicated they would be running to unseat their governors in 2017 polls. The senators&#39; oversight role in the management of the county governments have seen them engage in unending war with the county bosses over use of county resources. IEBC Chairman Issack Hassan said the agency was ready to work with the committee to make the requirement mandatory. &quot;We have officers in every county and we can work with Senate and ensure that the certificate is required of all of them once it becomes law,&quot; said Hassan when he appeared before the committee. The senators suggested that the agencies meet and agree on the vetting process. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;