Paris:&nbsp;France is to launch a new push for United Nations backing for a ceasefire in Syria that would allow aid into the city of Aleppo after some of the heaviest bombing of the war. As diplomatic efforts resumed, the Syrian military said army commanders had decided to scale back air strikes and shelling in Aleppo to alleviate the humanitarian situation there. It said civilians in rebel-held eastern Aleppo were being used as human shields and a reduced level of bombardment would allow people to leave for safer areas. Intense Syrian and Russian bombing of rebel-held areas of the northern city of Aleppo followed the collapse last month of a ceasefire brokered by Moscow and Washington, which backs some rebel groups. The United States broke off talks with Russia on Monday, accusing it of breaking its commitments. France said Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault would travel to Russia and the United States on Thursday and Friday to try to persuade both sides to adopt a Security Council resolution to impose a new truce. Ayrault has accused Syria, backed by Russia and Iran, of war crimes as part of an &quot;all-out war&quot; on its people. Damascus rejects the accusation, saying it is only fighting terrorists. READ MORE Hashi Energy inks Sh14b deal with Dubai investor South Sudan rebels say they clash with government forces in southwestern state Kim Kardashian 'feared she'd be raped' as masked robber grabbed her by the ankles in bed Speaking to French television channel LCI, Ayrault said: &quot;If you&#39;re complicit in war crimes then one day you will be held accountable, including legally. I think with the Russians you have to speak the truth and not try to please them.&quot; The former prime minister said he would also ask Washington to be &quot;more efficient and engaged&quot; and not allow a laissez-faire attitude to take over just because presidential elections were approaching in November. &quot;ALL THAT&#39;S LEFT&quot; Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry discussed Syria by telephone on Wednesday, but no details emerged. The Russian Foreign Ministry confirmed that Lavrov would meet Ayrault in Moscow on Thursday. The two-week-old Russian-backed Syrian government offensive aims to capture eastern Aleppo and crush the last urban stronghold of a revolt against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad that began in 2011. Half of the estimated 275,000 Syrians besieged in the rebel-held eastern part of the city want to leave, the United Nations said, with food supplies running short and people driven to burning plastic for fuel. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;