Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi has urged Coalition for Reforms and Democracy principals to stop wrangling. The former vice president has said he will only negotiate with CORD leaders, Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetang&#39;ula if they resolved their internal wrangles. However Mudavadi ruled out striking any political deal with Jubilee Party ahead of 2017 general elections, saying he would not fall for Deputy President William Ruto&#39;s political scheme to join Jubilee in exchange for a running mate post in 2022 polls. &quot;A lot of political formation will be witnessed early next year when the country moves closer to 2017 General Election. But I want the country to know that we are not talking with Jubilee,&quot; said Mudavadi. He said he will accept if Raila, Kalonzo and Wetang&#39;ula decide to support him for the country&#39;s top seat. &quot;But CORD has to sort out their issues first. How do you negotiate with them and they still have internal issues,&quot; he posed, when asked whether he was ready to negotiate with the coalition. READ MORE Panel to pick poll officials listed as current team quits I will not endorse anyone, Raila declares Reactions as DP Ruto woos Ukambani to ditch Raila and Opposition Mudavadi&#39;s party yesterday benefited from political realignments prompted by the recent merger of 13 parties into Jubilee Party after a governor and five MPs decamped from Jubilee to ANC. MPs Yusuf Chanzu (Vihiga), Alfred Sambu (Webuye East), John Bunyasi (Nambale) and Alfred Agoi (Sabatia) were yesterday received by Mudavadi at ANC&#39;s headquarters. Other leaders elected on the defunct United Democratic Front (ODF) ticket in 2013 who have decamped to ANC are Lamu Governor Issa Timamy and Ayub Savula (Lugari). The two leaders were, however, not present in yesterday&#39;s reception ceremony. He challenged leaders elected on UDF ticket to quickly make up their mind and join ANC before elapse of 30 days constitutional window.