Some 11 million copies of this year&rsquo;s national examination papers have been printed. But the papers will only be flown into the country one week to the start of the tests. This is one among several measures implemented to prevent exposure and to protect the credibility of the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) and Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) examinations that begin on November 1 and 7 respectively. Additionally, enhanced security features that include tamper-proof packaging and watermark barcodes on the papers to deter copying have been introduced. The consignment will arrive aboard five cargo planes. Apart from the warehouse at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) in Nairobi, the papers will be stored in three other protected stations in Mombasa for the Coastal region, Wajir for North Eastern and Eldoret for Rift Valley and western Kenya. A senior Government official familiar with the latest development on KCPE and KCSE exams explained that &ldquo;a lot has changed&rdquo; in exam preparations. &ldquo;There shall be no more elongated time with the papers because the Government does not wish to give room for any form of exam leaks,&rdquo; the official said. Anxiety has greeted preparations for this year&rsquo;s national exams, with reports that fresh questions had been generated to guarantee the credibility of the tests. physical delivery Speaking exclusively to The Standard, the official said only one set of the many examination questions produced for every paper was randomly picked, and 11 million copies printed ready for delivery. &ldquo;Previously, the examinations were wired through the Internet. This time, it was done physically. Everything was done with care and unnecessary contacts with the questions was limited. Only a few Kenya National Examinations Council (Knec) officials may be aware of the actual printed questions,&rdquo; said the official who declined to be named so as to speak freely. Fresh details show that this year&rsquo;s examinations will be the most guarded as additional security measures have been introduced to tame cheating. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;