A case filed by Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero&#39;s wife will not be postponed again because of the absence of their lawyer. Judge Joseph Onguto yesterday gave his last postponement of the case to Friday. In the case, Susan Kidero challenges the decision by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) to investigate her and Dr Kidero over alleged graft. &quot;The matter should now proceed whether lawyer Tom Ojienda for the petitioner will be present or not,&quot; said Justice Onguto. He ruled that the fact Prof Ojienda was being held up at the Judicial Service Commission (JSC) on official duties should not be used to delay the case. Ms Mboya had on April 10 filed a petition seeking to protect the rights of married women from unfair treatment, more so where their spouses are under investigation for offences like corruption. READ MORE Kidero vows to bankroll Raila campaigns Nairobi County to bring down billboards over Sh71m debt Jubilee leaders step in to avert fallout over governor's job She wants the investigation against her declared unconstitutional and&nbsp; tantamount to discrimination on the basis of sex and marital status. &quot;The EACC victimised me for being the governor&#39;s wife when it sought court orders to investigate my bank account at Commercial Bank of Africa in relation to an ongoing probe against Dr Kidero,&quot; says Dr Mboya in her court papers. The petitioner further argues that EACC has no evidence implicating her in corruption, and as such, has subjected her to illegal and unnecessary investigations merely because she is married to Kidero who at one point transferred the sum of Sh5 million to her account. Onguto had earlier temporarily restrained EACC from investigating various bank accounts held by Kidero and his wife. He also restrained EACC agent Dennis Joseck Mare from investigating the governor&#39;s US Dollar account with Standard Chartered Bank and a Sterling Pound account with Commercial Bank of Africa and the Evans Kidero Foundation Family Bank account.