&nbsp; ODM leader Raila Odinga intensified his presidential campaigns in Narok County with a call to the Maasai to rally behind him in the 2017 general election. Raila, who kicked off his one-day tour in Kilgoris town, told ODM supporters to adopt the six-piece voting system to ensure that the opposition won the August 8 polls by a landslide. The CORD co-principal accused the Government of neglecting members of the Maa community, citing lack of development and failure to address land issues affecting them. &quot;The Maasai have very good reasons to vote against the Jubilee government next year. Jubilee has neglected you and stolen your land through cartels in the Government,&quot; Raila said. He claimed the Government was planning to hive off a huge chunk of the Mau Forest to create room for a tea plantation, which is to act as a buffer zone between the forest and private land. READ MORE CORD retreat put o ff after Wetang&rsquo;ula, Kalonzo withdraw Raila can&rsquo;t win war on defectors Top lawyer writes to Raila over defectors as party meets &quot;As the opposition, we will be on the look-out. If they try to grab Mau Forest we will resist it at all costs,&quot; he said, adding that if Jubilee had the interests of the community at heart, it would have implemented the findings of the Truth, Justice and Reconciliation Commission. &quot;The report was released in May 2013 but up to now, Parliament is yet to deal with it. Jubilee has less than 10 months to vacate office yet they have not done anything,&quot; he said, adding that if he won the next elections, he would prioritise the report. Addressing local leaders and aspirants for various elective posts at St Joseph Mission Hospital Hall, Raila said the ruling Jubilee administration had failed to fulfill the pledges it made to the people and should be voted out. Raila&#39;s tour came two weeks after his clash with President Uhuru Kenyatta at the burial of former Cabinet minister William ole Ntimama. He addressed rallies in Kilgoris, Narok West and Emurua Dikirr constituencies. He was accompanied by ODM chairman John Mbadi, Deputy chair Christine Lemiso, Director of Elections Junet Mohammed, Homa Bay MP Gladys Wanga, Kitutu Masaba MP Timothy Bosire and Youth League chairman John Ketora. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;