A fresh wave of discontent is brewing in Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) strongholds over party primaries. A section of ODM officials have been accused of trying to rig party nominations long before they are conducted. Some MPs and aspirants for elective positions on the ODM ticket are pushing to have the Raila Odinga-led party contract the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to conduct the primaries to ensure fairness. This week&rsquo;s protest by Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero that the party&rsquo;s director of elections, Junet Mohammed, had publicly said he would not be given an ODM ticket to defend his seat, has opened a can of worms with the party denying claims it had drawn a list of preferred candidates. It has now emerged that party MPs are sharply divided over seeking the services of the IEBC to conduct the nominations. Those opposed to the proposal argue that IEBC cannot be trusted. They want the party&rsquo;s National Elections Board (NEB) chaired by Judith Pareno to conduct the primaries. READ MORE ODM top leaders retreat in Germany to analyse political situation in Kenya I quit because ODM cannot nominate me, says James Rege ODM ticket hopefuls up in arms over list of preferred candidates ODM National Chairman John Mbadi two months ago said the party was mulling over inviting the IEBC to carry out the exercise. But last week, he was quoted as saying the party may not afford the cost of hiring the commission. Muhoroni MP Onyango K&rsquo;Oyoo welcomed the idea of using IEBC to conduct party primaries and challenged leaders of CORD affiliate parties to change their hard position on nominations. &ldquo;The IEBC might do a good job but at the end of the day, they will still submit the results to the party leadership who might influence the final results,&rdquo; said Mr K&rsquo;Oyoo. Ndhiwa MP Agostino Neto and Women Representative Gladys Wanga want the IEBC to conduct party nominations. Speaking at Kidoi village in his constituency where he toured development projects yesterday, Mr Neto said Parliament should give the IEBC funds to conduct party primaries to enhance fairness. &ldquo;Parliament should allocate more funds to the IEBC to enable them conduct nominations for all political parties to avoid cases of discontent after nominations,&rdquo; he said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;