&nbsp; A protracted legal battle is looming between Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) and 13 of its members facing disciplinary action. The 13 are fighting to ensure that their names are not sent to the Registrar of Political parties for de-registration, a move that will send them back to the ballot box just 10 months before elections. Already, the 13 have sought the services of lawyers Kioko Kilukumi and former Garsen MP Danson Mungatana to defend them against ODM&#39;s move. Thursday, some of the affected leaders among them James Rege (Karachuonyo), Mpuru Aburi (Tigania East) and Isaac Mwaura (nominated) had mixed responses to the issues facing them. Mr Rege maintained that he is a member of ODM in good standing and will continue being so till the end of the current Parliament before deciding, which party to join. READ MORE Tension as ODM legislators fight for Malindi seat CORD retreat put o ff after Wetang&rsquo;ula, Kalonzo withdraw Jubilee and ODM to face off in mini poll He clarified that at no point had he ever declared that he was not a member of ODM, and that he has been duly paying the party&#39;s subscription fee. &quot;I am a member of ODM in good standing until the next elections. I have been paying up my subscription dues as a member. I have the freedom of association and of saying anything,&quot; said Rege. Although Rege maintained that he was yet to receive the show-cause letter from the party, he argued that he has minutes and the backing of his constituents that allow him to work with the Government and not Jubilee Party. However, a defiant Mr Aburi dared the party to expel him and set a stage for a by-election. Aburi said that he left the ODM party in 2013 and will not apologise to party leader Raila Odinga, adding that he (Raila) changed parties four times when he was an MP. &quot;By law, I am in ODM but my heart and body left ODM in 2013. I am ready for a by-election anytime. In fact they are getting late to conduct it,&quot; said the defiant Tigania East MP. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;