A former Director General of the National Youth Service (NYS) told a parliamentary committee he was rendered powerless following the appointment of his deputy. Former NYS Director General Nelson Githinji told the National Assembly Public Accounts Committee that when Adan Harakhe was appointed his deputy, he started to report directly to former Devolution Cabinet Secretary Anne Waiguru. The House team investigating the loss of Sh791 million at NYS heard that Mr Harakhe informally took over the reins of the department, bypassing his boss. Describing their relations as &lsquo;cordial&rsquo;, Mr Githinji recounted to the legislators how he gladly received his deputy, after getting information from his superiors that he was set to join the service, to assist him ease work, explaining that they needed extra hands. &ldquo;Mr Harakhe&rsquo;s letter of appointment on November 27, 2014, indicates he assumed direct jurisdiction over procurement, human resource, finance and administration,&rdquo; said Githinji. Reporting line READ MORE Former NYS boss Kiplimo Rugut blames Waiguru for his exit Top detective rules out NYS hacking claim in loss of Sh791m Kenya MPs question suspicious cash transfers at NYS &ldquo;Although his deployment indicated I was to directly supervise him, the reality was that he was on a direct reporting line with CS Waiguru. He was not reporting to me, they spoke directly,&rdquo; said Githinji. The former NYS boss, who was among officers suspended from the body over the multi-million saga, maintained that he played no role in the scam, noting that the elevation of his deputy to be the principal Authority to Incur Expenditure (AIE) holder at NYS clearly showed who called the shots. &ldquo;The role of an AIE holder in Government is perceived to be very instrumental on how the organisation runs, as he or she makes critical financial decisions. In Government it has lot to do with status. If it is taken from you, then it takes away the status associated with your office,&rdquo; said Githinji. His revelations prompted MPs, led by chairman Nicholas Gumbo (Rarieda), to ask whether he raised reservations of insubordination by his junior, and what action he took after he noticed Harakhe could be engaging in irregular activities. &ldquo;On reporting to the CS ( Waiguru), there was nothing much I could do. It was something that was out of my control and there was no way I could stop him from speaking to whoever he chose to. But I shared my concerns with the principal secretary,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;It was not possible at the start to take any action against him, as investigations were going on after claims of irregularities emerged. I also wrote the PS who was my immediate boss,&rdquo; added Githinji. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;