NAIROBI: Who could guess the cost of organizing political gatherings? By conservative estimates, to organize a political party convention in Kenya today requires hundreds of millions of shillings if not, billions. Put it another way; who could guess the cost of organizing the two party jamborees that happened at the weekend; one in Kasarani, Nairobi and the other at Tononoka in Mombasa? Most of Kenyans watched in awe as two of our leading parties threw what could easily go down as two of the most expensive parties. Whereas the two main political parties had organized their supporters to gather and endorse their candidates for president and in the case of Jubilee, to affirm the merger of the various political parties that have agreed to collapse into one single party, this was a show of might and there is no doubt who carried the day. Certainly, not Wanjiku. What went on at Kasarani; the 4X4 juggernauts draped in the Jubilee Party livery; the pomp and colour (there was too much red) and above all, the ecstasy was exhilarating. That is not to deny the concerns that throwing ostentatious parties raise. There are those who think that the extravagant display was a small offering of what 2017 could like as parties and candidates outdo each other for votes. I heard this extravaganza cost hundreds of millions, some even mentioned a figure of Sh2 billion. READ MORE Jubilee will face bruising battle, Isaac Ruto promises Parties must invest heavily in fair nominations Raila must repackage himself as political landscape is jolted When all is said and done, after the pompous political jamborees, most delegates will go back to their despondent states. Is our democracy one of display and nothing else? A politic that is not driven by any ideology or credo and where anything goes? Those keen enough must have heard about ODM&#39;s replica show of might; 47 buses to be flagged off by Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho. I looked around for the Isiolo bus and I didn&#39;t see it. It turned out that it was all a large PR exercise. ODM was playing catch-up. Sadly, we have seen our politics metamorphose into a huge auction yard. Equally sad, the media has played along. There is every reason to believe that ODM&#39;s was a knee-jerk reaction to Jubilee&#39;s launch plans. There was nothing much to offer at Tononoka grounds other than the usual sound bites of threats and a fit of braggadocio. They couldn&#39;t fathom how Jubilee could hog the limelight for five days consecutively. And so they too, because they love the showbiz decided to pull off a party. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;