A nurse at a health facility in Migori County has been accused of drugging and raping a woman he works with The male nurse, who is also in charge of a dispensary in Kanyamkago, Uriri sub-county, is reported to have injected a counsellor working with a local NGO but posted at the hospital with a sedative before raping her. The counsellor said she had visited the dispensary because she had chest pains and a cough. &ldquo;On Thursday afternoon, when the chest pains got worse and my cough persisted, he injected me and told me the next injection would be after 10 hours,&rsquo;&rsquo; she said. That, according to the nurse, would be 10pm. The counsellor was apprehensive about inviting the male nurse to her home because had made frequent passes at her before. &ldquo;I knew if he came to my house, he would refuse to leave. So I went to his place when he insisted. Besides, I needed the medication,&rdquo; she added. READ MORE Police arrest matatu crew and impound 305 explosives at Kenya-Tanzania border 180 new nursery schools to be built, says Munya Sh38b managed medical project now bearing fruit for Kenyans The victim claims she passed out but when she regained consciousness two hours later, she noticed that her clothes had been unfastened and her undergarments were around her feet. &ldquo;When I woke up at around 11.30pm, my bra was unhooked and my panties were on my feet. I asked why he had forced himself on me and he said it was no big deal,&rdquo; she said To her horror, the nurse then went to the dispensary and picked an HIV/Aids testing kits and tested himself right before her eyes to assure her that he was not HIV positive. &ldquo;He said I had nothing to be afraid of because he was HIV negative and told me this was a small matter that could be resolved quite easily,&rdquo; she said. The counsellor than bided her time until she got an opportunity to escape. She found an unlocked padlock nearby, shut the door then locked the man in the house before she screamed for help. &ldquo;I screamed for help and people came. He was arrested and taken to Uriri police station&rdquo; she said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;