Journalists around the country took to the streets Thursday, protesting against mysterious killings and harassment. This follows reports of journalists being intimidated, physically abused or even being killed in the line of duty. &ldquo;Various agencies and actors of the national and county governments and in some cases citizens have taken it upon themselves to normalise, justify and rationalise harassment, stalking, physical abuse, online bashing, physical assaults and in some cases attempted assassinations of journalists on the basis of unfavourable reporting,&rdquo; read a petition by the journalists. Nairobi-based journalists submitted the petition to Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) Keriako Tobiko, who declined to address the members of the Fourth Estate. Mr Tobiko after listening to the grievances by five representatives in his boardroom suggested those with cameras be let in, a move highly protested by the other journalists who demanded that the DPP addresses the whole group outside his office. &ldquo;We will not accept boardroom meetings, ateremke chini atuongeleshe (let him come and address us),&rdquo; they shouted. READ MORE Stop intimidation of journalists Time to change defamation laws Raila Odinga: State plotting to muzzle social media Another petition was also presented to the office of the Inspector General of Police, which was received by Police Chief Simon Kiragu. Mr Kiragu assured them that the petition would be given to IG Joseph Boinnet and action taken. Kenya National Commission on Human Rights Vice Chairman George Morara, while addressing the Pess at Freedom Corner before the commencement of the demo, called for credible and prompt investigations into the situations where police, public and private actors have been implicated in violating rights of journalists. &ldquo;We have received your petition and we will launch a formal complaint with the relevant authorities if nothing is done,&rdquo; Mr Morara said. The journalists marched through Nairobi streets carrying a banner reading &ldquo;Wanahabari Taabani&rdquo; (Journalists in danger) and printed placards reading: &ldquo;Journalists&rsquo; lives matter&rdquo; and &ldquo;Investigate and prosecute threats to journalists&rdquo;. Suspected poisoning The protests were ignited by the recent death of Kilifi-based Standard reporter, Joseph Masha, who died under mysterious circumstances. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;