&nbsp; In ancient Meroe, a young prince was tested to determine his readiness to assume the throne after the death of his father. He was sent to a nearby bush to bring home and make his wife the only woman he would find. There was only one woman in the bush, and that was the woman he would take as his wife. One prince went to the bush and the only woman there was his ailing 70-year-old mother. She was rushed to Meroe&rsquo;s top-notch healer as he led 10 elders to the neighbouring kingdom where he picked a 21-yearold virgin for a wife. This prince turned out to be Meroe&rsquo;s celebrated king. Unlike the prince who would not capture his mother for a wife, some pollsters in Kenya have formed the habit of sharing very unlikely figures. READ MORE Coast professionals hit out at Governor Mvurya for backing Jubilee Divorce party affairs from functions of State Five candidates join race to oust Governor Waithaka next year If a paper report talks of 10 women in a room and you count only one woman, telling people that the room has 10 women is foolhardy. In the Kenyan context, Jubilee and CORD have strongholds with support for each not likely to fall below 30 per cent. This is the same support you can expect for presidential candidate match-ups. If this is true, how then are we supposed to treat figures that award one of the presidential candidates a figure less than 30 per cent? Known trends in Kenyan elections include voting informed by tribe and that a tribal kingpin can sway an entire tribal vote to a preferred &ldquo;outsider,&rdquo; in this case, someone from another tribe. While we are always viewing tribe in a negative sense and pretending it doesn&rsquo;t exist, Americans are not afraid of researching and reporting on race-related voting trends such as the over 95 per cent preference of Obama by African-Americans in both terms of his presidency. Other known factors include the significantly high impact of huge samples and the import of a mixed methods approach. Unknowns include the methodology Kenyan pollsters use for sampling in such a tribal country with numerically non-homogenous tribes, the explanations behind some of the glaring errors witnessed recently in some opinion polls, and the future of opinion polling in Kenya. Concerted effort by pollsters, the media, and members of the public in addressing these issues will help make opinion polling in Kenya good enough to be used for planning and strategising, not just by politicians, but sociologists and economists. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;