Last week, a young man bragged on social media about defiling a Standard Four girl in Baringo County and went ahead to post some photos. The man, who was later arrested, seemed to delight in the fact that he had sexual contact with a minor in a bush. Last week, a young man bragged on social media about defiling a Standard Four girl in Baringo County and went ahead to post some photos. PHOTO: COURTESY Just a few weeks earlier, a Kenya Airports Authority employee was sacked after taking to his social media pages to boast of sexual encounters with underage girls. These are disturbing stories that reflect the challenges young girls are facing in our society today. It also points to the decay in our society&rsquo;s moral standards. The very people who are charged with protecting girls are the same ones destroying their innocence. Our media is flooded with cases of teenage girls who have been sexually abused. Despite some being attacked by complete strangers, most of the attackers are people well known to the victims. READ MORE Accord both sexes equal recognition Of sex, money and power relations Let us protect street children, they are not punching bags These attackers are their fathers, uncles, brothers, neighbours, teachers, and people with the responsibility of bringing them up. They are people who these girls look up to and respect. Teenage girls are also married off to older men and forced to get into a life that they are not ready for. Some years back, one of the local newspapers carried a story of a young girl who was married off at the age of 9. All her father took from the suitor was a bundle of khat and she was married off to a 45-year-old man. And this is not a Kenyan situation alone; it is affecting girls all over the continent and beyond. In addition to sexual exploitation, young girls still face challenges to do with lack of education, early marriages, trafficking and prostitution, among others. Whereas women and girls make up more than half the world&rsquo;s population, they are more impacted than men and boys by poverty, climate change, food insecurity and lack of healthcare and global economic crises. The United Nations Foundation estimates that 130 million youth across the world are out of school, 70 per cent of whom are girls. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;