Opposition leader Raila Odinga has denied having any link to the winding up of the Kenya Airways cargo handling business. Raila said he only held one share out of 1,000 in &quot;a competitive cargo business at the time when the Kenya Airways business was wound up&quot;. He said that Astral Aviation Ltd, linked to him, had no influence in the management decision to close the business. &quot;That one of the competitors of Kenya Airways in the cargo business, to wit, Astral Aviation Ltd, also did not have a role nor influence over the management of Kenya Airways or its decision to wind up the cargo handling business,&quot; he said in a letter written by his lawyer Paul Mwangi. It adds: &quot;That any benefit that may have befallen on the Astral Aviation Ltd resulting from the winding up the Kenya Airways cargo was handling business was not exclusive to it but enjoyed by all other companies carrying out airfreight cargo handling business in Kenya&quot;. Raila yesterday threatened to sue The Standard Group for defamation over a &quot;malicious&quot; report linking him to the sale of Kenya Airways&#39; cargo business. READ MORE Raila&rsquo;s call to arms over IEBC uncalled for Raila dismisses report on KQ cargo deal change Step down and be a king maker, Wetang'ula now urges Raila He demanded an apology within seven days from The Standard, failure to which he would sue the media house. Through his lawyer, Raila accused The Standard of publishing a malicious headline so as to damage his reputation in the eyes of the public. He further claimed that the article in The Standard on Sunday on October 1 was published in a scheme to enhance commercial benefit of the media house by making more sales without checking facts. &quot;We are instructed to demand a retraction of the headline and an apology to our client published with the same prominence that you granted the defamatory story,&quot; reads the demand letter. It adds: &quot;We have firm instructions to commence proceedings against the writer of the offending article and the establishment known as The Standard Group as the publisher thereof within seven days if the said retraction and apology are not published as demanded.&quot; Raila said that he could not influence the decision of the board since he had no role over the management of the national carrier. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;