A lawyer who claims to have been instructed by retired President Daniel Moi to sell land in an ownership row has failed to prove his allegations. Mr Omwanza Ombati, through Omwanza and Nyasimi advocates, has sued to block the Directorate of Criminal Investigation (DCI) from investigating him over claims that he is unable to demonstrate to investigators when Mr Moi gave him the instructions. The revelation is contained in a replying affidavit by an investigator who had been tasked to carry out investigations concerning the sale of the land off the Thika superhighway, which is being claimed by multiple owners. Emmanuel Kanyungu said in court papers Mr Ombati was summoned to make a statement last month on whether he had received instructions from the former President to transact the sale of the land on his behalf with Muthaiga Luxury Homes, a firm owned by Equity Bank Chief Executive Office Dr James Mwangi. According to the investigator, the lawyer only produced a letter dated December 28, 2012, which had no letterhead. The court papers show Mr Ombati did not have any other document to justify the claim. Curiously, the date indicated in the letter, according to the investigator, indicated it was drafted seven months after the sale transaction was settled. READ MORE Solio Ranch loses bid to have land case halted and moved to Nairobi Planned law removes barriers for mega works Man shot dead in Naivasha inter-clan clashes Provide details &ldquo;Then petitioner (Ombati) was not able to demonstrate when he received instructions because the only document he availed was a letter without a letterhead dated December 18, 2012, seven months after the sale was concluded,&rdquo; said Kanyungu in the affidavit. Investigations by the DCI revealed Mr Ombati had received Sh225 million from Dr Mwangi&rsquo;s lawyer, but he allegedly could only account for less than a half of the total amount to the investigators. Kanyungu said the lawyer allegedly promised to provide the details of the remaining amount within the week, but he allegedly kept on shifting the dates. It prompted DCI to seek orders from the magistrate&rsquo;s court to investigate his account at ABC Bank. Kanyungu said: &ldquo;After the petitioner left our office, he kept postponing availing the documents.&rdquo; GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;