The much-awaited motion to impeach Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero failed to kick off after CORD members boycotted the assembly sitting yesterday. All CORD Members of the County Assembly, except Makongeni&#39;s Peter Imwatok, and 20 Jubilee representatives failed to show up for the session, resulting in a lack of quorum. &quot;It is very sad that Nairobi Opposition leaders failed to show up and take responsibility for their actions. The majority of them were bribed in order not to show up for the sitting but we will re-introduce it tomorrow and again on Thursday,&quot; said Deputy Leader of Minority Chege Ngaruiya. The Kahawa West MCA claimed the members had been promised Sh60,000, which is equivalent to their sitting allowance for the three days, to boycott the sessions. Mr Ngariuya described Dr Kidero&#39;s going to court to bar his impeachment as an act of desperation, adding that it would not deter Jubilee members from pushing for his ouster. court order READ MORE Why attempt to remove Kidero will flop Of sex, money and power relations Kisii MCAs spend second night in cells for defilement Kidero went to court on Monday and obtained an order barring the assembly from debating his impeachment. Assembly Speaker Alex ole Magelo had, however, slotted the motion for debate. The motion&#39;s sponsor, Viwandani MCA Samuel Nyangwara, said the court order would not interfere with the impeachment. &quot;In boycotting the sitting, the members forgot that the independence of the legislature cannot be interfered with by the Judiciary so they chose to bribe members not to attend,&quot; said Mr Nyangw&#39;ara. The renegade member vowed that if the motion did not go through within the legislated three days, the impeachment supporters would change tack and go after county executives that had a hand in Kidero&#39;s alleged&nbsp; irregularities. &quot;After three days, the motion can only appear again after six months but we will be going after the executives who have violated the law together with the governor. We will ensure that we clean this house before we leave for the next elections,&quot; Nyangw&#39;ara said.