Eight MPs have challenged Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka to join the Jubilee government. At a public function in Machakos yesterday attended by Deputy President William Ruto, the lawmakers said Kalonzo does not stand a chance of becoming CORD&rsquo;s presidential candidate. The eight included five from Ukambani who recently ditched their parties for Jubilee. Kalonzo, ODM leader Raila Odinga and Ford Kenya&rsquo;s Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula will be fighting it out to fly CORD&rsquo;s flag in next year&rsquo;s elections. The MPs claimed that Kalonzo will be shortchanged, and as such they implored him to rally the region behind the ruling coalition. Ruto did not directly respond to calls by the MPs for Kalonzo to join the newly formed Jubilee Party but instead said the Jubilee government was ready to serve all Kenyans equally irrespective of their political inclinations. MoU UNTENABLE READ MORE Step down and be a king maker, Wetang'ula now urges Raila There are no divisions in CORD, Raila Odinga says I am the man to beat President Uhuru, says Kalonzo Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko and MPs Victor Munyaka (Machakos Town), Kisoi Munyao (Mbooni), Vincent Musyoka (Mwala), Itwiku Mbai (Masinga), Regina Ndambuki (Kilome), Kanini Kega (Kieni) and Moses Kuria (Gatundu South) all called on Kalonzo to dump Raila&rsquo;s team and back the Government. &ldquo;Kalonzo had an MoU with Raila to support him (Kalonzo) for the presidency but Raila has declared that he will again contest,&rdquo; said Mr Mbai. Mr Kisoi said: &ldquo;Raila and Kalonzo&rsquo;s MoU is untenable and it&rsquo;s time the community read the signs and took the right political direction. 2017 elections will be a defining moment as to whether the Kamba will be permanent in Government, or permanently in the Opposition.&rdquo; Mr Musyoka claimed that Raila was reluctant to support Kalonzo to fly CORD&rsquo;s ticket. &ldquo;Kambas must get prepared to be in the next government. Our people must not line up to vote and find themselves in the losing side once again,&rdquo; Mr Munyaka added. Mr Kuria alleged that the Jubilee government had given Kalonzo a good offer to take a third of the Government positions but he declined. &ldquo;If he took the offer, Kambas would not be languishing in the Opposition like they are today,&rdquo; he said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;