Journalists in Kenya are facing an increasingly polarised, repressive and disconcerting working environment. Various agencies and actors of the national and county governments; elected politicians and in some cases citizens; have taken it upon themselves to normalise, unwarranted and continuous harassment, stalking, physical abuse, online bashing, physical assaults and in some cases attempted assassinations of journalists on the basis of unfavourable reporting. This trend only points to perhaps a systematic plan by both State and non-State actors to ensure that the space for journalists who report on duty holders&rsquo; actions and any crime-bent individual regarding social justice, land grabbing, corruption and other matters is shrinking at an alarming rate. The Kenyan journalists&rsquo; fraternity therefore seizes this opportunity to voice its opposition to this emerging trend of impunity towards its members. We call for credible investigations into situations where the police and county inspectorate officers have been implicated in violating rights of journalists, including the recent reports that an influential Kilifi politician was involved in the alleged poisoning to death of Kilifi-based Standard newspaper journalist Joseph Masha on September 3, 2016. On the same day, video footage and reports emerged of two journalists from the Royal Media Services and the Nation Group being beaten by County Askaris in Kakuzi, Murang&rsquo;a County. READ MORE Time to change defamation laws Tobiko directs the arrest of four officers for murder and indecent act charges Commercial photographer shot dead in Kitale Recently, on August 23, 2016 in Nyeri County, a Daily Nation journalist Grace Gitau and her Standard counterpart Lydia Nyawira were assaulted by MCAs after they realised they were taking photos in the assembly. It is alleged that an MCA strangled Ms Gitau, twisted her hands and grabbed her camera demanding that she deletes the photos she had taken. On April 18, 2015, two journalists were assaulted by General Service Unit (GSU) officers at Bombi, Galana Ranch in Tana River County. Nation Media Group&rsquo;s Nehemia Okwemba and Citizen TV&rsquo;s Reuben Ogachi were attacked as they were investigating a complaint by local pastoralists regarding the confiscation of over 200 heads of cattle by said GSU officers. In a very worrying trend, there have been no arrests despite there being footage and witnesses of the savage attack. The gruesome murder of Eldoret-based John Kituyi, the owner and editor of The Weekly Mirror, on April 30, 2015 which to this date remains a mystery reinforces the chilling realities journalists face each day whenever their work is suspected to be unfavourable to duty bearers. In Nakuru, veteran journalist Elijah Kinyanjui has been threatened with death on several occasions, and is constantly being arrested for criticising the Nakuru county government in his WhatsApp groups. Article 33, 34 and 35 of the Constitution safeguards Kenya&rsquo;s freedom of expression, free and independent media and access to information. However, journalists have experienced first-hand how their space is being restricted or how it is becoming virtually impossible for them to carry out their bona fide trade. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;