NAIROBI: A man who was estranged from his wife for 30 years lost a legal battle against his eight children on the right to bury her. Joseph Basweti wanted to bury his wife, who died in Njoro, Nakuru County, in his village in Kisii according to Gusii traditions but the court found that he did not have the right to do so. Justice David Maraga, ruling in favour of Mary Kemunto&#39;s (the deceased) children, was categorical that their father could not claim to love his separated partner in death. &quot;It would be immoral to allow such an estranged husband to purport to love his wife in death. Under Kisii customary law, the widow or widower has a right to bury his or her deceased spouse. It follows that the respondent in this case has a right to bury the deceased. That right, is, however, not absolute. The deceased&#39;s views as to where and who should bury his or her body as well as other circumstances do in most cases override that right,&quot; Mr Maraga ruled. In his 2010 decision, the judge noted that the deceased&#39;s wishes to be buried in the home she established overrode her husband&#39;s claim to customs that her body ought to be buried on his land. Mr Basweti could not escape the judge&#39;s tongue lashing as he criticised him for failing to bother to look for his wife for 30 years. READ MORE Burial delayed for 16 months as two women fight for man's body Body of a man still in Kisumu mortuary 7 months later How SM Otieno case helps courts resolve burial rows Maraga noted that although he had paid his in-laws 15 cows and eight goats as dowry and married the deceased in the 1960s under customary law, his quest to bury her was to avoid condemnation by the community. &quot;For over 30 years, the deceased was separated from the respondent. For over 30 years, the respondent did not know where or how the deceased lived. He was not concerned with the deceased&#39;s sickness,&quot; he said. &quot;How, in the circumstances, can such a man be allowed to take the deceased&#39;s body to Kisii for burial against her wishes just because he wants to avoid condemnation by his community?&quot; The case was filed on May 3, 2010, and the court made its decision on appeal on July 22, meaning that the deceased was still in the morgue for close to three months. The judge ordered Basweti to foot the mortuary bill and directed that the woman be buried in Njoro. The scramble for property, long-lost partners or unknown children who resurface to demand recognition, cultural and religious beliefs are among reasons why burial disputes arise. In other cases, it is about divorced parents fighting over who will bury a child. GRIEVING FAMILIES GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;