Nearly all of President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s former lieutenants who were relieved of their duties are now intending to run for governor&rsquo;s seats. And following the launch of the Jubilee Party last Saturday, the former Cabinet Secretaries are now busy launching and pushing for a major comeback into leadership as people&rsquo;s representatives. Former CSs Anne Waiguru (Devolution), Francis Kimemia (Secretary to the Cabinet ), Kazungu Kambi (Labour), Felix Koskei (Agriculture), Charity Ngilu (Lands) and Joseph ole Lenku (Interior) have declared interest in governor&rsquo;s positions and are already making glitzy appearances in their counties. Waiguru, Kimemia, Koskei and Lenku were part of the delegates at last weekend&rsquo;s Jubilee Party launch at Kasarani where 13 parties dissolved to join the new vehicle that President Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto will use to seek re-election. On Friday, Waiguru, the latest entrant among the six, was endorsed by elders in Kutus town, Kirinyaga County, where she has declared her interest to unseat incumbent Joseph Ndathi. Her colleagues Kimemia, Kambi, Lenku and Koskei started off their forays at the counties earlier and are currently giving the incumbents a run for their money. READ MORE Leaders want fair contest in Uhuru's new vehicle Nyachae role at JP fete leaves many guessing Raila: I&rsquo;ve no apologies over fiery exchange with President Uhuru Their comeback is expected to cause political excitement in their respective counties, given their stature, clout and experience in the Government. Kambi and Ngilu were politicians before they joined the Cabinet in 2013, but the rest of the aspirants are getting into the murky waters after careers at the private sector and the government. But issues of integrity, especially on Waiguru, Kimemia, Koskei, Kambi and Ngilu that led to their exit from their ministerial positions, will likely emerge and could be used by their opponents. Apart from Lenku, the five CSs were hounded out of office through allegations of corruption, majority falling with the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission report read in Parliament by President Kenyatta. Uhuru directed all government officials mentioned in the EACC report to step aside to allow investigations into allegations against them. But they insisted the allegations were tramped up and they have since been cleared. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Next &raquo;