The Kwale County Assembly has formed an ad hoc committee to investigate reports that public servants are campaigning for Governor Salim Mvurya and other politicians ahead of the 2017 elections. On Wednesday, some MCAs claimed that Mr Mvurya, who recently defected to Jubilee from ODM, is using public servants employed by the county government to promote himself politically and pursue a partisan agenda. Tiwi Ward representative Omar Mwakwambirizwa asked MCAs on Wednesday to investigate county officers, including executives, Public Service Board members and ward administrators engaging in politics. Assembly Speaker Sammy Ruwa directed the formation of the committee. It is alleged that some of the officers joined Mvurya in Nairobi for the launch of the newly-formed Jubilee Party. &ldquo;The Public Servants Code of Regulations and the Public Officer Ethics Act, which is binding for all public servants, provides that an officer shall not, in connection with the performance of his duties, support or oppose any political party of candidate in an election,&rdquo; said Mr Ruwa. READ MORE President Uhuru Kenyatta signs law to pick new IEBC commissioners Politicians express fears of unfair party nominations President Uhuru, Opposition leader Raila political rivalry plays out during Ntimama's burial Further direction The seven-member team, which will be chaired by Deputy Speaker Andrew Mulei, is expected to investigate and report back to the assembly for further direction. The development could complicate matters for Mvurya whose defection invited much criticism. There is also increased rivalry between Mvurya and the Speaker, who has declared his intention to run for the governor&rsquo;s seat on an ODM ticket in the elections. &ldquo;The County Assembly has to play its role of oversight and deal with those found flouting the Public Servants Code of Regulations,&rdquo; he said. Mr Mwakwambirizwa said some of the county government officers were using sensitisation programmes funded by the government to campaign for certain politicians. &ldquo;This is unethical and amounts to misuse of public resources, which is not good. We need to investigate and those found guilty will face the law. We cannot entertain people breaking the law,&rdquo; he said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;