Deputy President William Ruto joined other East African leaders in wooing leading American companies to invest in the region. The DP, who is representing President Uhuru Kenyatta at the 71st UN General Assembly Summit in New York, called for an end to frequent travel advisories issued by the US to its citizens overseas. He said travel advisories were not the solution to insecurity, and that said pockets of strife in neighbouring countries in the region should not give the US a reason to slap a blanket travel advisory. Adressing East Africa and US business forum held at Westin Hotel, which brought together Heads of States, Chief Executive Officers from the US and East Africa, Ruto said Kenya, and East Africa at large has enormous investment opportunities. &quot;You have more legitimate reason to invest in East Africa. We have the requisite infrastructure; what we need are direct flights to the region to make it easy for investors to get there,&quot; said the Ruto. His sentiments were echoed by Presidents Yoweri Museveni (Uganda), Paul Kagame (Rwanda) and Ethiopia&#39;s Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn who told US Secretary of Commerce Penny Pritzker that travel advisories were hurting the region&#39;s economy. READ MORE Gideon: Defend the rights of electorate IOC ASKS KEINO TO CALL FOR POLLS: Current Nock office now expected to be in place until elections are held in December Same old faces take new Jubilee Party top posts The leaders called on the US government to expedite its pledge to introduce direct flights to East Africa, saying this will open up the region&#39;s market and spur economic growth. The leaders said ending the bans will uplift the region&#39;s profile globally. &quot;East Africa is the place to invest. It is the place to be. Security is good. But you should stop these travel advisory issues,&quot; said President Museveni. The leaders noted that security is an integral part of any countries development, and that the travel bans scared away potential investors and tourists willing to venture in the region. According to Museveni, security in major economies of East Africa is good and can only be improved through partnership and support of all other nations. Rwanda&#39;s President Paul Kagame told the investors that Eastern Africa is a haven of untapped investment opportunities. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;