Residents of the Nyali suburb have offered to help rebuild a local police station at a cost of Sh26 million. Under their umbrella body, Nyali Business and Residents Association (NBRA), the residents said they would spend Sh19 million to build a new gender unit at the station and another Sh7 million on a perimeter wall. The remaining money will be used to rehabilitate facilities at the police station in a bid to improve service delivery. The NBRA chairperson, Wangeri Ndegwa, said they had raised the money&nbsp;through various activities since July last year. The officials said the had decided to help establish a gender unit at the station to help victims of sexual abuse, especially boys and girls. &quot;As a matter of fact, all police stations in the county require gender units. We decided to take up this project because we know we all need the station,&quot; Ms Ndegwa said. social responsibility READ MORE Experts rejected crashed Mathare chopper, new details reveal Fear as hundreds flee volatile border in Garissa County Militant suspected in Bangladesh cafe attack killed himself, police say &quot;So far, we have used Sh700,000 on the project. We are doing this as part of our corporate social responsibility,&quot; said Ndegwa who was accompanied by NBRA treasurer Michael Wangamati and members Anastacia Mutheu, Per Ondiek and Daniella Langert. Coast Regional Co-ordinator Nelson Marwa is scheduled to preside over the groundbreaking ceremony for the project on a yet-to-be disclosed date. Ndegwa said the first phase of the perimeter wall would cost Sh1.5 million. &quot;This will begin as we continue to raise more funds. Several people and groups have promised to support the project and we are waiting for them to honour their pledges,&quot; she added. She said the association had so far received Sh4.3 million in pledges from corporate organisations and individuals as she expressed optimism that they would achieve their goal. Those who have pledged support include Governor Hassan Joho who will give Sh1.2 million and Nyali MP Hezron Awiti (Sh2.3 million). GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;