The recent controversy over the Northern Collector Tunnel Water Project in Murang&rsquo;a County is not only uncalled for but could also trigger a dangerous trend. The row has taken on a potentially divisive trajectory where counties could begin selfish competition for resources. The project has been ongoing for two years now, but information has been scanty. The national government therefore owes Kenyans crucial information to avoid speculation and uninformed debate on the project. Being a public project, an environmental impact assessment should have been done and the results made public. Murang&rsquo;a residents and all Kenyans should be aware of the project&rsquo;s impact on the environment and its future repercussions. Information such as the cost, who are the contractors and how the tender was awarded should also be made public. The tunnel is meant to address water shortage in Nairobi, which is quite in order, seeing that the city is the country&rsquo;s capital. But Murang&rsquo;a residents should also benefit from the project. The national and county governments must therefore come forward and explain to residents the greater good of the collector tunnel. It is unfortunate that the project has divided local leaders who clearly do not have the full details of what is happening. There is no clear explanation from authorities and environmental experts are silent on this matter. Amid the confusion, politics has taken centre stage with rivals taking convenient positions on the project and seeking to woo supporters to their side. Indeed, some leaders have taken different stands on the project in the course of the two years. The turn of events could overshadow real issues that need to be addressed and put unnecessary hurdles on a project that could benefit all Kenyans. For instance, have Murang&rsquo;a residents been assured of accessing the water through the project? Will the county government share any fees with the national government? Will the county government get enough funds to conserve the water catchment areas? These questions must be answered and all information on the project made public. Failure to do this would only provide fertile ground for rumours and propaganda being spewed to benefit a few people politically. There should be no secrecy in public projects. The fact is that none of the 47 counties can be completely independent from the rest. They must complement each other in one way or the other, hence the need for transparency in all projects. There would be chaos if the counties begin to hold onto resources within their jurisdiction and deny Kenya the benefit of being one united nation. Water and Irrigation Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa, Murang&rsquo;a Governor Mwangi wa Iria, county leaders and Nema officials must come forward and clear the air on this project. READ MORE Murang&rsquo;a Senator Kembi Gitura wants water project stopped We weren't consulted on Sh6.8b tunnel, says Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi You will regret for ignoring Raila&rsquo;s remarks, Atwoli warns Jubilee