Showdown looms in Narok County gubernatorial race after President Uhuru Kenyatta reconciled Governor Samuel Tunai and Narok West MP Patrick ole Ntutu who had threatened to quit Jubilee. Mr Ntutu and Mr Tunai will now battle it out for the Jubilee Party ticket in nominations. The rivalry between the two leaders played out last Friday before the President when supporters believed to belong to the MP heckled the governor and his deputy Everlyn Aruasa during the homecoming of Geothermal Development Company Managing Director Johnson ole Nchoe in Rotian. The governor exuded confidence that he will clinch the Jubilee Party ticket as he had gained support of the Ilaiser sub-clan of the populous Purko through the appointment of Eng Nchoe who has already hinted on rallying his people behind him. Tunai is banking on his development record to retain the seat. &ldquo;I am happy to have my friend Mr Ntutu in Jubilee. We will battle it out together and the people will decide,&rdquo; he said. The MP said Narok was 100 per cent behind Jubilee and maintained he was in the gubernatorial race adding that he is ready to battle out in the nomination. READ MORE CORD defends performance of its negotiators in IEBC committee Will a browbeaten CORD redefine the 2017 narrative? Uhuru party to work with Chinese Communist Party So far, the governor has the backing of former Jubilee rebel Narok South MP Korei ole Lemein, Narok East MP Lemanken Aramat and Gideon Konchella (Kilogoris). The GDC managing director who contested the Narok gubernatorial seat on ODM ticket but lost to Tunai, vowed to drum up support for him. &ldquo;We fought with Jubilee&rsquo;s Tunai for governorship in 2013, he won, I conceded but now I hand over the over 50,000 who voted me to him,&rdquo; said Nchoe. On the other hand, the MP has the support of his brother Senator Stephen ole Ntutu and Emurua Dikirr MP Johana Ng&rsquo;eno. Whoever gets the Jubilee ticket will face it off with former ICT Principal Secretary Joseph Tiampati (ODM) in the gubernatorial race. Mr Tiampati is vying for the seat for the second time after losing to Governor Tunai. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;