Entrepreneurs have been challenged to pursue ventures that can protect the environment and generate income. Addressing participants while opening the first-ever Africa Innovation Festival at Kenyatta University, Environment and Natural Resources Cabinet Secretary Prof Judi Wakhungu urged the youth to look at business opportunities presented and help conserve and protect the environment while financially empowering themselves. The three-day innovation festival has attracted exhibitors and inventors who are showcasing manufactured products that focus on energy conservation and creating business opportunities. The innovation festival is a project of the Kenyatta University Chandaria Business Innovation and Incubation Centre and has attracted exhibitors and participants from around the country. Some of the exhibitors include briquette makers, organic fertiliser manufacturers and energy saving jikos distributors. The festival theme is: &#39;Climate change mitigation and adaption&#39;&nbsp;and aims at identifying innovative solutions to climate change. READ MORE Learning starts at the newly formed Tom Mboya University College. Busia County will not give loans to university students Kenya should focus on the right innovations The best exhibitor will walk away with a $5,000 (Sh500,000) prize. Prof Wakhungu said the Africa Innovation Festival is meant to provide a platform for innovators to showcase their innovations and ideas and Kenyatta University has been recognised for taking the lead in support of innovation fFestivals that has helped achieve the objective of United Nations of climate change. The CS said the ministry has developed a climate change response action and the state expects institutions of higher learning, tertiary institutions and secondary schools to support innovation. She urged the private sector to support the government in strengthening the innovation systems. Acting Vice Chancellor of Kenyatta University, Prof Paul K Wainaina said the University will support innovation and technology.