NAIROBI: Tired of playing second fiddle and being regarded as flower girls, many deputy governors are plotting to take on their bosses in next year&rsquo;s polls. At the beginning of their term, deputy governors through the Deputy Governors Forum, complained of frustrations due to lack of clearly defined roles. But they are now crafting their own alliances to unseat governors after their political marriage of five years is over. In Nyanza, deputy governors in Kisii, Nyamira, Kisumu and Siaya counties have set their sights on the top seats. In Kisumu, Ruth Odinga is determined to unseat Jack Ranguma come next year. Ms Ruth vied for the position in the 2013 General Election but lost in the ODM party primaries and was forced to deputise Mr Ranguma. READ MORE Raila's word on CORD flag bearer How party hopping law will weaken Parliament 'Diaspora' group disowns Deputy Governor Ruth Odinga A sister of ODM party leader, Raila Odinga, she traces her roots in Siaya County and is said to be using a political forum comprising people who hail from outside Kisumu to form a voting base ahead of the next&nbsp; elections. In her recent meeting with professional members, which was largely criticised by Ranguma, Ruth maintained that as a politician she has the right to meet any constituency of voters and made no apologies for that. &ldquo;We are always being treated as outsiders and I have always felt like an orphan even though I am the deputy governor. I will be on the ballot in 2017 and anybody who wants to work with me must accept to be my running mate,&rdquo; said Ruth. In Siaya , Deputy Governor Ouma Onyango is preparing to battle it out with his boss, Cornel Rasanga, should the governor fail to pick him as the running mate. And in Kisii, Governor James Ongwae and his deputy, Joash Maangi, have drifted apart and now belong to different political groups although they were elected as a team. Mr Ongwae is sticking to ODM, while his deputy has been part of two delegations of Gusii leaders that have visited State House to meet the President in the past month. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 4 Next &raquo;