The emergence of cartels specialising in coffee theft in Central Kenya has left majority of peasant farmers wallowing in poverty. This is besides the numerous challenges facing the once lucrative coffee sector. Even before the advent of the harvest season, more than 600 bags of parchment worth millions of shillings have been stolen from coffee factories in Mt Kenya region, with Nyeri the worst hit, over the last two months. From previous assessments, Nyeri County loses more than Sh100 million annually to cartels masquerading as common thieves who raid factories at night. The syndicated gangs transport their loot by road in broad day light and evade multiple police roadblocks erected along the busy 150km Nyeri &ndash; Nairobi highway. But as authorities grapple with the mystery, farmers are questioning how the cartel manages to ferry their loot yet a close knitted procedure is required before a permit is issued to transporters. There are fears that the thefts are inside jobs orchestrated by cartels comprising factory management committees, millers and marketers. READ MORE Visram: I will dismantle graft cartels in courts if I become Kenya's next CJ Coffee farmers seek direct market One recent incident lends credence to this argument. Armed gangsters broke into the stores of a Nyeri factory and made away with about 200 bags of parchment coffee estimated at Sh7 million. But upon an audit, it was discovered that the reported robbery could have been a ploy by the management of the society to fleece farmers. When The Standard on Saturday visited the factory, the management insisted that coffee had been stolen. Some farmers blame the mess on licencing of many millers. Solomon Kamau, the manager of the new Gatukuyu co-operative society, says the directorate should consider canceling licences to tame the theft. &ldquo;The reason behind the coffee theft from societies and farmers is to fill the vacuum by millers who have no coffee of their own but depend on other peoples sweat,&rdquo; Kamau said. On Tuesday, farmers in Gaturiri Coffee Factory in Mathira lost 55 bags of coffee parchment valued at Sh2 million. Incidentally, the robbery was not reported to the authorities until the next morning. As a result, top officials from the factory were taken in for questioning. Numerous cases of coffee theft reported in Nyeri, Murang&rsquo;a, Kiambu and Kirinyaga point at well-coordinated inside job. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;