A former National Youth Service (NYS) boss has spoken out on how he was hounded out office in 2014. Former NYS Director General Kiplimo Rugut, while testifying before Parliament&#39;s Public Accounts Committee, said he was yet to come to terms with the manner he was treated before he was finally kicked out of office. Mr Rugut, who appeared before the committee yesterday, blamed former Devolution Cabinet Secretary Anne Waiguru for engineering his unceremonious exit from NYS. &quot;I am still surprised by the manner I was shown the door. Even house helps in our homes are sent away in a more dignified manner, not kicked out the way it was done to me,&quot; he told the MPs who are investigating the loss of Sh791 million at the department. Provincial commissioner Rugut, who has had an illustrious career in public administration for over two decades, rising to the position of provincial commissioner before joining NYS, said his transfer from the department was malicious. READ MORE Top detective rules out NYS hacking claim in loss of Sh791m Kenya MPs question suspicious cash transfers at NYS Jubilee spends Sh40b in two years on programmes to empower youth Noting that transfers are normal in the public service, as he had been moved to over eight stations, he emphasised that transfers should be conducted in a dignified manner and with regard to the rights of the officers involved, unless it is disciplinary action. &quot;I received notice of my impeding transfer on Friday May 9, 2014 at 6pm while in the middle of preparing to host the Chinese Prime Minister who was to visit the NYS Headquarters. On Sunday 9am , I was asked to hand over to my predecessor, who was already in office,&quot; he said. Rugut was transferred to the Sports ministry, as he awaited redeployment. He was later appointed the Anti-Doping Agency of Kenya&#39;s (ADAK) chief executive officer. He blamed his resistance to taking verbal instructions from Ms Waiguru for his woes, saying he was kicked out for being strict.