Panic has gripped students and parents after it emerged up to 30 colleges are not authorised to train. It means certificates the colleges, mainly offering tourism and hospitality courses, are issuing are useless. Hundreds of unsuspecting students are already enrolled in the estimated 40 colleges spread across Mombasa. Their parents have paid a lot of money in tuition and examination fees for certificates the government does not recognise. A list the Technical and Vocational Education and Training Authority published recently shows only 12 colleges have complied with its requirements . Up to now, most of the colleges are yet to comply despite the warning the authority issued on July 29. The agency has warned parents with children in unregistered colleges to relocate them. READ MORE Lack of awareness and knowledge hampering growth of domestic tourism Governor Joho and Senator Omar in fresh row over county spending Do captive markets make economic sense? A letter sent to one of the colleges on September 15 says: &quot;A qualifying certificate issued by a training institution that has no legal mandate to do so can neither be used for employment nor academic progression.&quot; Some of the institutions cleared to continue training include ACK Bishop Hannington Institute of Technology &amp; Development Studies, Bandari College, Coast International College, Holy Ghost Fathers Technical Institute, Kenya School of Revenue Administration and Mombasa Aviation Training Institute. However, the fate of close to 30 other colleges remain unknown. Kenya Association of Hotelkeepers and Caterers (Kahc) Coast branch executive officer Sam Ikwaye described the development as a disaster. &#39;&#39;It is true we have colleges purporting to offer tourism and hospitality courses and have very huge enrollments, yet they lack requisite facilities to offer these kind of technical and specialized training,&#39;&#39; Ikwaye said. He noted that the situation is so bad that most of the graduates have to be retrained upon graduation. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;