Mount Kenya University founder Simon Gicharu has added another feather to his hat after he accepted an honorary professorship award at the International University of Management (IUM). The Namibian University granted Gicharu an honorary professor in business and entrepreneurship.University Chancellor Dr Kleopas Dumeni hailed the contribution of Gicharu to education sector in Africa. &quot;Gicharu is an astute entrepreneur whose works are manifest in the growth MKU. We honour you for the great achievement,&quot; said Dr Dumeni in a statement. In his acceptance speech, Gicharu termed the award &#39;timely&#39; saying it blends with the ongoing celebrations to mark MKU 20 years of &#39;excellence and growth from strength to strength.&#39; &quot;This award will fuel our resolve at MKU to work harder and vastly improve service to humanity. It is indeed a very humbling experience and a grand feedback to me, my family, to the Board of Directors, the entire MKU community,&quot; he said. He said the award is also a demonstration that all the effort put in giving service to the society is being recognized and appreciated. READ MORE 85,000 applicants seek student loans App for campus orientation North Rift leaders storm Moi University in protest against appointment of acting VC Gicharu who is also the MKU board chairman however cautioned that education should not be a preserve of a chosen few and hailed African governments for making education their countries countries&#39; strategic goals and vision statement. &quot;Education must be made accessible to as many Africans as possible by making it affordable. Our higher learning institutions must also align their goals and objectives along these ambitious visions for the good of our African people,&quot; said Gicharu. He however challenged African governments to work towards harmonization of curriculums. &quot;We want a situation where someone can study anywhere and work anywhere in then Pan African spirit. I am therefore happy to note that the growth and spread of MKU to different parts of Africa goes a long way towards strengthening the Pan- African spirit, a spirit that has a great potential for socio-economic emancipation for all Africans. A united Africa will provide the synergy needed for faster growth and development,&quot; Gicharu.