A top athletics official walked around with Sh25 million in Rio as athletes were treated to deplorable living conditions during the Olympic games in Brazil. Emotions ran high Wednesday as MPs were treated to the shocking testimony of how the Head of Mission to the Rio Olympics, Mr Stephen Soi, walked around with the huge amount of money. This happened even as former marathoner Catherine Ndereba, who was the chaperon of the Kenyan team, was locked out of the Olympic village without food and money. Ms Ndereba Wednesday gave an emotional account of how she was treated to a game of musical chairs by athletics officials, who gave her two tickets to Rio, before ending up in the city only to be locked out of the Olympic village. Ndereba spent a night without dinner, breakfast and had to borrow money from Soi, who admitted before the committee that he had carried the cash from Kenya &ldquo;for accommodation of Sports ministry officials and Members of Parliament&rdquo;. &ldquo;After being appointed the chaperon of the team, the dates of travel were moved every now and then. When I got to Rio, I did not have accreditation. We spent the night without dinner,&rdquo; she said. READ MORE Suspended Solo forced our hand with repeated actions Address IOC&rsquo;s threat to sanction Kenya NOWHERE TO HIDE: NPSC says emabttle Soi no longer in National Police Service Ndereba said she had a heated exchange with the official, who said she had to sign an agreement that she would repay the debt. &lsquo;Soi gave me 500 Brazilian Real (Sh15,000) and told me I had to sign an agreement that I will return the money,&rsquo; said Ndereba. &ldquo;We exchanged words with Soi, and he said I had pushed myself to come to Rio yet I was not supposed to come....I felt so bad, I felt that some people were more important than others,&rdquo; she said. Ndereba was among athletes who could not access the athletics village despite being considered one of the primary officials of the team. Several athletes, including Javelin thrower Julius Yego were also left behind due to confusion in the run-up to the games. &ldquo;I didn&rsquo;t want the marathon race to go on without me because I felt there was something I could do...when the athletes did not find me, they were so disturbed. They asked me if they could send me food. Being the chaperon, I needed to be where the athletes were,&rdquo; said Ndereba. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;