The winners and losers of the recent dissolution of political parties are beginning to emerge. Musalia Mudavadi&rsquo;s Amani National Congress (ANC) and Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto&rsquo;s newly-formed Chama cha Mashinani (CCM) are the biggest beneficiaries of defections by elected leaders who have refused to join Jubilee Party. Mr Ruto has widened his political influence, attracting leaders from the now defunct United Republican Party (URP) and scoring a political victory over his rival Deputy President William Ruto. Five MPs, a governor, deputy governor and 56 MCAs, the majority of who are from UDF, which dissolved to join Jubilee, have joined Amani National Congress. Isiolo Deputy Governor Mohammed Gulleid and 13 MCAs in Bomet County are some of the leaders who have joined the governor&rsquo;s recently formed party ahead of next year&rsquo;s polls. According to Registrar of Political Parties Lucy Ndung&rsquo;u, 108 elected leaders have bolted from Jubilee within the 30-day window period. READ MORE Raila, Kalonzo in talks as Mudavadi knocks Mudavadi party wins from Jubilee Party fallout DP William Ruto reassures Kenyans of fair primaries Governors Ruto, Peter Munya (Meru) and Issa Timamy (Lamu) are some of the county bosses who have refused to work with President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP Ruto in the 2017 elections. Mr Timamy and his deputy, Eric Mugo, and MPs Yusuf Chanzu (Vihiga), Alfred Sambu (Webuye East), John Bunyasi (Nambale), Ayub Savula (Lugari) and Alfred Agoi (Sabatia) have all joined Mudavadi&rsquo;s ANC. The party has also harvested the majority of MCAs in Vihiga and Kakamega counties. Party to watch &ldquo;The latest developments confirm that ANC is the party to watch as we approach 2017 due to its focused and pragmatic political agenda propelled by our mission to guarantee peace, provide servant leadership and salvage Kenyans from wanton poverty and corruption,&rdquo; said ANC Secretary General Godfrey Osotsi. In Meru, where leaders are still fighting over the Party of National Unity (PNU), Mr Munya and five MCAs have decided not to associate with any political party. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;