Five counties in the Coast region are staring at starvation as the country faces another cycle of famine-related deaths. Focus will be on governors Salim Mvurya (Kwale), John Mruttu (Taita Taveta), Issa Timamy (Lamu), Amason Kingi (Kilifi) and Hussein Dado (Tana River), whose counties face the highest risk. The five governors will be expected to come up with mitigation measures after it emerged their counties have received minimal or no rains at all in the past four months. The situation is threatening 1.3 million lives in Kenya, according to the National Drought Management Authority&nbsp;(NDMA). Kilifi has been identified as having the severest vegetation deficit. Kinango in Kwale and Lamu West sub-counties are also in the severe vegetation deficit band. &ldquo;One county (Kilifi) is in the alarm drought phase, while all others are in alert or normal, with a generally worsening trend,&rdquo; the authority says in its October national drought early warning bulletin. Parts of Garissa, Lamu, Makueni, Kajiado, Narok, Marsabit, Isiolo and Samburu counties have also been hit by significant shortages of pasture and water, leading to deaths of livestock in some areas. READ MORE No Kenyan should die because of drought and food shortages Kilifi County signs investment deals worth Sh300b Security operation nets doctor with terror links in Malindi The drought management agency says it is preparing for a possible La Ni&ntilde;a event, which may set up the country for more severe food shortages. It says Garissa, Kwale, Lamu and Narok counties have a moderate vegetation deficit. In counties experiencing moderate or severe vegetation deficit such as Garissa, Narok and parts of Tana River, the available pasture and browse will last for only one month, or even less. In the ranching zone of Kilifi, the pasture has already been depleted. Water sources are also under significant pressure. For example, 90 per cent of pans and dams in Moyale, Turbi and Saku areas of Marsabit are already dry. NEXT SEASON GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 4 Next &raquo;