Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto yesterday appeared before a Senate watchdog committee to respond to respond to various audit questions raised against his administration. The governor, who was making his second appearance before the Senate Public Accounts and Investment Committee, was put to task as to why over Sh30 million collected during the 2013-2014 was not recorded in the cash book. Auditor General Edward Ouko, in his report, had noted that Sh30,414,779 collected during the period under review and banked directly to county bank accounts, was not recorded in the cash book or captured in ledger records. According to the Auditor General, this raised a possibility of a loss and embezzlement of unrecorded revenue collections in the county. Spirited defence&nbsp; But the governor put up a spirited defence of his administration before the committee led by&nbsp;Senator Anyang&rsquo; Nyong&rsquo;o, absolving himself from blame. READ MORE Nyeri County officials spend second night in jail Sh167m classrooms project raises eyebrows More Rift Valley women set sights on elective posts for 2017 polls &ldquo;The amount received that had not been recorded in the cash books due to time constraints has so far been reconciled. The original bank statements have been sent to the auditors,&rdquo; said Ruto, who added that no amount of money remains unaccounted for in their accounts. In the audit report, it was established that the bank reconciliation statements for various banks for period under review were not prepared on time, posing a risk of likely loss of cash without knowledge of county executive. The former Council of Governors (CoG) chairman explained that his administration had&nbsp;updated and prepared the financial documents for all the accounts maintained by his government. Ruto gave an almost similar answer when the senators put him on the spot for not maintaining an inward cheque register for the same period, thereby making it difficult to track transactions which could lead to misappropriation of funds. &ldquo;It is true that during the time of audit, the inwards cheque register was not upto date. It only recorded the cheques received and respective amount, but other details were omitted, but we have since updated it.&rdquo; The governor&rsquo;s response to the question puzzled Senator Kennedy Mong&rsquo;are (Nyamira , who sought an explanation from his colleagues in the committee and the Bomet county boss. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;