Police in Butere are holding a 27 year-old man who killed his mother while trying to intervene in a fight between his parents. Benson Odongo threw a stool at his father, missed him but the seat landed on the mother and killed her. The incident took place at around 11 pm and left locals at Queen Village in Eshitsitswi sub location in Butere Sub County in shock. Odongo become angry when his parents started quarrelling over food. He tried to intervene but nothing was forthcoming. He lost his temper, picked a stool which he hurled at his father, missing him by inches. Unfortunately, the stool landed on his mother&#39;s head. &nbsp;&ldquo;The confrontation started after we had just had supper. Dad came back home and asked for food but I told him that we had already eaten. I asked him to give me time to prepare something. Minutes later my father told my mum in a harsh tone that he had not eaten since morning and they started quarreling.&rdquo; Said Odongo&#39;s 16 year-old sister. She further noted that when the suspect who was drunk came and found the parents quarrelling, he first told them to stop. READ MORE Chinese tour guide arraigned in Kenyan court, charged with murder Ababu invades ODM zone and attacks Raila Key witness turns up in court too drunk to testify She said her brother&#39;s appeal was ignored and he lost his cool thereafter. &quot;When I saw the incident was getting violent, I cried for help. My in law came running asking me what was wrong but before explaining anything, my brother hurled the stool. I became very confused and got hold of his hand. He now had picked a panga and wanted to slash my in law,&quot; she noted. She took her in law who had now been injured in the confrontation and locked her in a room but his brother was still pursuing them. She said they managed to escape and ran off to the home of a village elder. &quot;I still can&rsquo;t understand why my brother resorted to such violent acts and chose not to solve the situation in an obedient manner,&quot; she said amid sob. Confirming the incident, Imanga chief Ham Shikuku said the woman Ruth Odongo ,56, was pronounced dead at a nearby clinic. The body was later taken to St Marys Mumias mortuary awaiting a post-mortem examination. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;