Traders and fishermen are unable to access 30 beaches in Lake Victoria as they have been blocked by water hyacinth. The weed has paralysed fishing activities and marine passenger transport, rendering thousands of people jobless, Beach Management Unit (BMU) officials said. Speaking to The Standard in Homa Bay town yesterday, the affected groups asked the county government to budget for the removal of the weed that has invaded beaches in Karachuonyo, Homa Bay, Rangwe and Mbita sub-counties. Charles Juma, a businessman, said for the weed to be completely removed, youths must be involved. &quot;Many methods applied in removing the weed have failed for more than 19 years. Let both the county and national governments engage us to remove it manually,&quot; said Juma. He argued that manual removal of the weed would also create jobs for the youth besides providing remedy for reducing multiplication of the weed. READ MORE 36 Kenyan fishermen arrested in Uganda released Sh6m fence put up as Kisumu&rsquo;s dumpsite project stalls Tusker drop crucial points but remain top of table County Beach Management Network Chairman Edward Oremo said the weed was causing poverty among Lake Victoria dependents in the county. &quot;Each of these beaches has about 500 people who depend on the Lake directly through either fishing or transport sector. But it is very unfortunate that they have been forced to stay without a living for about one month without earning a living,&quot; Mr Oremo said. He urged the county government to provide funds for hiring people who can remove the weed manually. &quot;Waiting for mechanical and biological methods will take a long time, which may increase poverty in the county. Let our people be engaged in removing the weed with their hands,&quot; he added. Some of the beaches affected are Ndhuru, Alum, Koginga and Rambira. The Standard visited Homa Bay Pier Beach where many people who operate in various sectors in the lake narrated their tribulations. Fishermen said had driven them out of business. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;