Former Somalia Ambassador to Kenya Mohamed Ali Nur &quot;Americo&quot; with President Uhuru Kenyatta at State House Nairobi in April 2015 when he was bidding farewell after the end of his tour of duty. The diplomat is now in the race to be Somalia&#39;s next President. NAIROBI: As neighbouring Somalia heads for crucial presidential and parliamentary polls next month, the immediate former Somalia Ambassador to Kenya Mohamed Ali Nur &ldquo;Americo&rdquo; sees himself as the best bet to lead the country to greener pastures amid an on-going violent conflict with Al Shabaab. The 54 year old father of eight, who served as a diplomat in Nairobi between October 2007 and April 2015, is now seeking to unseat the current President Mohammud Hassan Sheikh from power. The long-time diplomat, who served his term during President Mwai Kibaki and Uhuru Kenyatta, sees the current Somali Federal government as lacking in focus in combating the threat of Al Shabaab to Somalia and regional countries, as well as fixing the unemployment crisis among Somali youths and building genuine reconciliation in the grassroots. &ldquo;I fully understand the frustrations of Somali nationals in Somalia and in the diaspora and Somalia&rsquo;s neighbours regarding the continued instability in the country despite many efforts to restore peace. But I have a clear strategy to return the country to normalcy within a few years,&rdquo; he said. The former envoy is expected to fight it out for the top seat with other political heavy weights in the Somali politics including former President Sheikh Shariff Ahmed, former Prime Ministers Mohammed Abdullahi &ldquo;Farmaajo&rdquo; and Abdiweli Sheikh Ahmed among others in what promises to be a tight race. As an envoy in Nairobi, Amb Nur was central in easing tensions between Kenya and Somalia following the devastating Al Shabaab attack in Westgate Shopping Mall (September 2014) and Garissa University college (April 2015). He also mobilized Somali nationals in Kenya to donate blood and provide humanitarian and moral assistance to the victims of the attacks. He also urged the Kenyan government against what he saw as profiling and harassment of Somalis by Kenya&rsquo;s security forces in response to Al Shabaab attacks. In an interview during a brief stop in Nairobi from the Somali capital, Mr Nur said that if elected President, his priority will be to empower the Somali security forces to shoulder greater responsibility in maintaining security and stability inside the country instead of continued overreliance on African Union soldiers. &ldquo;We appreciate the enormous sacrifices that have been made by AMISOM in stabilising Somalia for the last 10 years, including the loss of many lives. But we realize that AMISOM soldiers cannot be in Somalia indefinitely. That is why the process of building and strengthening local security forces must be speeded up,&rdquo; he said. He added: &ldquo;Currently, local forces cannot stand up to Al Shabaab without the backing of AMISOM. This is not sustainable if Somalia and the region have to be secured from Al Shabaab and other groups that are threatening our common security.&rdquo; The US-trained economist, who is popularly known as &ldquo;Ali Americo&rdquo; by friends, says that there is little investment going into the local security forces, with military and police personnel going for months without salaries even though their salary is only US$100 or Sh10,000. He attributed the anomaly to graft and lack of vision. Ambassador Mohamed Ali Nur &nbsp;&ldquo;The Somalia Federal Government has received millions of dollars in the recent years on behalf of the country&rsquo;s security forces, but there is little to show for that money,&rdquo; he said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;