The seven-day ultimatum ODM leader Raila Odinga gave the defecting 12 governors and MPs lapses today. This is even as the party notified two more lawmakers of plans to expel them for associating with other parties. Budalang&#39;i MP Ababu Namwamba, who quit as ODM secretary general, and his Likoni counterpart, Masoud Mwahima, are the latest targets of expulsion threats from the party. It has also emerged that the affected governors, MPs and a deputy governor defied the party&#39;s directive to explain why disciplinary action should not be taken against them for defecting to Jubilee Party, some at an open forum presided over by the President. Each of the rebels was notified last Tuesday by the party of the intended disciplinary action that could see them lose their seats. They are required to defend themselves in writing. The next stage is now for the party to accord the &#39;rebels&#39; a fair hearing&nbsp; before making a recommendation to the National Executive Council (NEC). READ MORE Kick IEBC commissioners out now, demands Raila CORD: We will resume anti-IEBC demos next week Welcome home, Raila tells Funyula MP Paul Otuoma Should their fate be sealed, the party is required to inform the Registrar of Political Parties who will remove the name of the affected member(s) from the party register, relevant Speakers and the electoral agency before the seat(s) can be declared vacant. Yesterday, the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) announced it was prepared for by-elections should the need arise. But the action by the party could open a protracted legal battle as the politicians fight to save their seats. According to ODM&#39;s Disciplinary Committee chairman Fred Athuok, the committee would convene a meeting to review the responses, if there are any, and listen to their defence before making a recommendation to NEC. Similarly, if there are no responses, the committee would make a recommendation to NEC for expulsion from the party of the defiant members, a move that could set the stage for a mini-election ahead of the big race next year, given the number of seats that may be declared vacant. A source at the party&#39;s headquarters in Nairobi confirmed none of those targeted had responded in writing. Yesterday, Mr Athuok confirmed writing to the two legislators to explain why they should not be expelled. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;