Examinations authorities are pushing for enforcement of laws that will land exam cheats a jail sentence of up to 10 years. This is part of reforms introduced to contain examination fraud. It will be a stiffer penalty compared to previous years when cheats would only forfeit their results. The tough new guidelines were released yesterday, ahead of the November 7 start of the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) examinations. The rules presented by Kenya National Examination Council (Knec) acting CEO Mercy Karogo target candidates, invigilators and examination administrators. &ldquo;Any person who gains access to examination material and knowingly reveals the contents, whether orally or in writing, to an unauthorised party, whether a candidate or not, will be in violation of Section 27 of the Knec Act and the penalty will be imprisonment for a term not exceeding 10 years, or a fine not exceeding Sh2 million or both,&rdquo; reads the guidelines. Those who impersonate legitimate candidates have also been warned and can be sentenced to a two-year jail term or fined Sh2 million, or face both penalties, while those who damage exam material can be fined Sh5 million or be jailed for five years. READ MORE Exam staff pay fear as ranking returns to Kenya schools KNEC should streamline payments for teachers Knut: Special needs have been ignored If the imposter is a student, the penalty will be severe &mdash; the student will be prohibited from taking an examination for three years. &ldquo;Please ensure you do not commit any examination irregularity to avoid having your results cancelled,&rdquo; said Ms Karogo. The tough measures come as part of the broader reforms in Knec aimed at restoring credibility of the national examinations. Part of the measures announced by Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang&rsquo;i to detect cheating was that Knec would appoint school principals and head teachers to be in charge of their examination centres. He said the principals and head teachers will be assisted by &lsquo;carefully selected supervisors.&rsquo; The CS said Knec would identify senior officials and responsible teachers to be supervisors and invigilators of the national examinations. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;