Deputy President William Ruto expressed Kenya&rsquo;s concerns at the failure by the international community to meet its obligations over refugees hosted in the country.&nbsp; Speaking during a high-level meeting on large movement of refugees and migrants at the UN General Assembly in New York, US, Ruto defended Kenya&rsquo;s decision to close down Dadaab camp, saying the country shouldered the burden alone. &ldquo;Kenya deployed $10 million (Sh1 billion) to support the repatriation in addition to engaging the World Bank, the African Development Bank, Arab Development Bank to create an enabling environment for the Somalia Government to receive its people,&rdquo; Ruto said. He added the international community pledged $500 million (Sh50 billion) to facilitate the repatriation but only less than one percent (Sh500million) of the commitment has been realised. Ruto is representing President Uhuru Kenyatta at the 71st United Nations General Assembly. He also co-chaired a round-table discussion with Fiji president Major General Jioji Konousi Konrote on international action and co-operation on refugees and migrants as well as issues related to displacement. READ MORE Kenya denies abuse of refugees in push to close Somali camp Ruto further held bilateral talks with UN secretary general Ban KI-Moon on the sidelines of the event on refugee situation in Kenya and the region. The Assembly bringing together world leaders opened yesterday in New York amidst tight security on the back of terror threats. With three foiled attacks in Manhattan, Chelsea and New Jersey, the conference venue was under lock down with intense security patrols and checks by New York Police Department and the Secret Service. President Barrack Obama is expected to address the Assembly today. &nbsp;Ruto argued that the large movements of refugees and migrants is not only a security concern but also an environmental hazard. &nbsp;With a global burden of 65 million refugees and immigrants, the highest number witnessed since the world wars, Kenya argued that some of the camps hosting the refugees have become breeding grounds for terror. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;