UASIN GISHU: William Kipsum Songok left home over half a century ago in pursuit of greener pastures. The first born of the late Songok and Martha Koech left their home, which was then in Kitale, for Endebess in 1954 to herd a white settler&rsquo;s cattle. His family tried over the years tried to locate him in vain. But they have never lost hope. Before Kipsum&rsquo;s father died, he instructed his children to do everything to ensure that his oldest son returned home. They have been hoping against hope that his dying wish would be fulfilled. That wish finally became a reality last Tuesday. Kipsum, who left home as a boy, returned an old man, his 62 years of absence conspicuously written on his furrowed face and grey head. It was song and dance in Kapkeben village, Ziwa location in Uasin Gishu County, as he was reunited with his brothers and sisters - and their children and grandchildren. He himself is childless, and is still a bachelor at the age of 75. READ MORE Form four student gets seven years in jail for abducting boy Solar eclipse engulfs Nakuru, Eldoret, Kitale Kakamega family looking for kin missing since 2004 To express their boundless joy, Kipsum&rsquo;s relatives garlanded him like a soldier who had returned home after winning many battles, and was sandwiched between dancing relatives and neighbours who could not conceal their excitement. The wide smile on his wrinkled face described his own joy as he was received into one of the tents erected to shelter visitors who attended the homecoming ceremony. AFTER CIRCUMCISION &ldquo;I left our Kitale home in 1954, two years after circumcision, and followed a mzungu (white man) who used to purchase livestock. I went with him to the far ends of Endebess where I herded his animals for about six years. But then he sold the farm and left the country,&rdquo; Kipsum narrated. He said when he returned home, he found his family had moved from the Kitale farm where they had been living because the farm had been sold. &ldquo;I tried to locate them but failed. I then moved to Kaplemoru village in search of my uncles because this was my mother&rsquo;s native home, but I could not find my kinsmen. It was then that I began doing casual jobs. One farmer employed me to take care of his cattle,&rdquo; recalled Kipsum. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;