Listening to Haniya Said Saggar defend her late husband Sheikh Aboud Rogo reminds older readers of Yoko Ono&rsquo;s steadfast defence of the late John Lennon. Lennon, who co-founded the English rock band The Beatles, led a complicated life filled with drugs and women and ended up dying by the bullet. Haniya, an articulate woman with a heart of steel, defended Rogo&rsquo;s honour in life and death and came close to losing her own life for that. She was shot in the left leg and left for dead when her husband was killed by assassins on August 27, 2012, and remains wounded to date. Rogo&rsquo;s murder, two weeks after the US and UN had placed him on a sanctions list for alleged terrorist funding, unleashed four days of rioting, murder, pillage and arson across Mombasa. His unwashed body was buried at a local cemetery. His supporters believed they were justified to bury it unwashed to demonstrate he had achieved martyrdom by dying violently in defence of Islam. Four months later, when she spoke to The Standard, Haniya insisted her husband had achieved martyrdom. &ldquo;I consider him a martyr because the (Muslim) religion says anyone who dies an oppressive death is a martyr,&rdquo; said Haniya. READ MORE The troubled life of Aboud Rogo's widow Mombasa family seeks orders to bury slain terror suspects' Three terror suspects to undergo medical tests, Mombasa court Islamic teacher Later, she told a journalist she had refused to re-marry to dedicate her life to &ldquo;teaching madrassa (Islamic school)&rdquo;, a job she has been doing alongside small scale farming in Kanamai since she became a widow. Today, Haniya finds herself in trouble with the law again, with authorities claiming she had a hand in last Sunday&rsquo;s terror strike on Central Police station in Mombasa, through Tasnim Yakub Abdullahi Farah, one of the three women killed in the attack. Detectives claim Haniya communicated with Tasnim prior to the attack and there was some financial transaction between them. Tasnim&rsquo;s body lies unclaimed at the Coast General Hospital. Following Rogo&rsquo;s death, Haniya remained out of the limelight for just four months. She was back in the news when police raided her home in Kanamai to arrest her then 17-year-old son Khubaib. On November 15, 2012, she protested loudly when Khubaib and Swaleh Abdi Majid were arrested a day after Majid had married Rogo&rsquo;s daughter Rumaisa for allegedly plotting a terrorist attack on Makupa police station. Haniya told The Standard on Saturday she believed the state had a conspiracy to decimate her family. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;