KAKAMEGA: Amani National Congress (ANC) party leader Musalia Mudavadi has asked President Uhuru Kenyatta and CORD leader Raila Odinga to back his presidential bid in the 2017 General Election. On Friday, Mudavadi said time was ripe for the two big shots to return the favour he accorded them after supporting them in 2002 and 2007 respectively. &ldquo;I have proved that I am a generous person because I supported them so let them also reciprocate their support to me next year,&rdquo; Mudavadi said during the burial of former Kenyan ambassador to Somalia Joshua Odanga in Khayega village, Kakamega County. As to whether his party plans to go the coalition way, he was categorical that ANC will engage other like-minded people and coalitions when that time comes. &ldquo;Right now we are busy selling the policies of ANC. We are not in talks with any political entities but we will do that when the right time comes,&rdquo; said Mudavadi. The ANC Secretary General Godfrey Osotsi while speaking in Vihiga yesterday at a funds drive in aide of a youth group, said ANC is focusing on strengthening itself ahead of 2017 elections. READ MORE Turkana senator and MPs ditch opposition I will be on ballot, Raila assures supporters No fanfare as JAP exits and Jubilee enters Party hopping &ldquo;ANC is willing to engage affiliate parties in CORD either individually or jointly but not as CORD. This is because CORD is based on a 2013 pre-election coalition agreement which expired after the election just like ANC and not Eagle,&rdquo; said Ostosi. Mudavadi questioned the government&rsquo;s plan to spend a staggering Sh2 billion during the launch of the Jubilee Party on September 10. &ldquo;Why would you use Sh2 billion to launch a party that a common man will not benefit from it?&rdquo; he posed. He called on members of the public to back him as he prepares to make a second stab at the presidency. &ldquo;I am only going for the second time so allow me to go for it. If you look at the history of the presidents we have had before you will realise that no one won the election after trying it for the first time,&rdquo; said Mudavadi. At the same time, Mudavadi criticised Members of Parliament for passing a Bill meant to regulate party hopping. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;