Any minute now, Kenya Airways &mdash; known as KQ &mdash; could breathe its last. The Pride of Africa is on her knees. Teetering on the brink of death &mdash; a long, painful fatality. Yet all the mandarins who should know &mdash; executives, board members, and ministry officials &mdash; have gone AWOL. Or simply wring their hands and helplessly feign powerlessness. They are all a futile impotent lot. Like others, I have watched in agony as the national carrier staggers to its certain demise. It&rsquo;s clear former CEO Titus Naikuni &mdash; whom I had lauded once as a miracle worker &mdash; left behind a hulking carcass. As soon as he exited, KQ collapsed in a heap. Which begs the question &mdash; who, or what, is killing KQ? Kenyans take a lot of pride in 254, the country code. KQ was a good projection of that pride. Let me tell an anecdote. For Kenyans like me who live in North America, KQ has for decades been a visible sign of Kenya&rsquo;s vitality. Even in the dark days of the single party, KQ stirred our hearts. It was at Amsterdam&rsquo;s Schiphol airport, the European air transport hub, where we would connect with KQ on the last leg of our flight &ldquo;home.&rdquo; You would see the eager faces of Kenyans and other East Africans ready to board for Nairobi. There were no delays or cancellations. Even well-heeled American and European tourists were very happy with KQ. Now that&rsquo;s changed. On a recent jaunt to Nairobi, I approached a KLM agent at Schiphol for customer service. The Dutch agent&rsquo;s &mdash; KLM handles KQ&rsquo;s needs at Schiphol &mdash; spoken and unspoken responses said it all. Once I mentioned I was a KQ &mdash; and not KLM &mdash; passenger her demeanour completely changed. It was as though I had become a leper to be shunned and scorned. Without listening to my request, she dismissively said she couldn&rsquo;t help me. I remonstrated with her for being unprofessional. The thought she was a racist even crossed my mind. She patronising smiled at me and said she couldn&rsquo;t help with any KQ request no matter what it was. I was stunned and flabbergasted. I asked for her manager. The manager was slightly better &mdash; but only slightly. She apologised for her colleague. READ MORE Revealed: Contents of Kenya Airways deal that handed McKinsey billions KICC joins forces with KQ to market Kenya KQ: We have a contract with rugby union Now, I must say I find the Dutch at Schiphol friendly and professional. So, this was unusual. But the manager explained to me that KQ was in a shambles and unreliable. She said KQ blocks seats and then doesn&rsquo;t sell them, or is simply unresponsive even to KLM agents who handle its business. I was deeply embarrassed. The manager made it sound as though KQ&rsquo;s incompetence and corrupt behaviour was Kenya&rsquo;s national disease. I got angrier as she recounted her exasperation with KQ. Then I realised I wasn&rsquo;t actually angry at her but at KQ. It was KQ which had put me in this mess. I have several questions for KQ. I am no expert in the aviation industry. But as a frequent flier, I know a thing or two about the business. First, KQ doesn&rsquo;t have that many indigenous competitors on the African continent. Only two other national carriers &mdash; South African Airways and Ethiopian Airlines &mdash; run viable flight services. Why can&rsquo;t KQ thrive with so little competition? The routes to West Africa alone should be a boon. Not to mention the whole of East Africa. Kenya is a top tourist destination. Why can&rsquo;t KQ harvest all the tourist passengers? And why does Kenya keep on giving low-cost carriers landing rights in Nairobi to kill KQ? Who benefits if KQ goes to the morgue? I heard some KQ executive say that Ebola was a death blow. What a lame excuse. It seems to me there&rsquo;s either a conspiracy to kill KQ, or there&rsquo;s unfathomable incompetence and corruption at the management level. At a time when we should be celebrating Captain Koki Mutungi of KQ &mdash; the first female African pilot of the Dreamliner &mdash; we are instead mired in talk of the collapse of the airline. What boggles my mind is the end game. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;