Nakuru, Kenya: An ODM Member of Parliament who broke ranks with the party leader and declared his support for the Jubilee government has affirmed that he is still a member of the orange party. However, Nakuru Town West MP Samuel Arama, who fell out with ODM leader Raila Odinga soon after he was elected to parliament, said he will move to Jubilee Party (JP) in 2017 after the expiry of his term. &quot; As far as am concerned am still a member of ODM until the expiry of my term in office next year,&quot; Mr. Arama told the Standard yesterday. The legislator said he will not honour summons to appear before the ODM disciplinary committee stating he had not defected from the party. &quot;What I have done is to express my desire to defend the parliamentary seat on a Jubilee Party ticket, otherwise I am still a member of ODM,&quot; he said in Nakuru. He faulted his party leader for receiving elected leaders from other political parties who have expressed their desire to join ODM but at the same time rebuking those who leave the orange party saying Raila was not sincere when he speaks on democracy. READ MORE Party hopping not healthy for democracy How party hopping law will weaken Parliament MPs buckle under pressure to pass Bill on party hopping &quot;What democracy is there when Raila receives Ford Kenya MPs who have declared to work with ODM while at the same time he rebukes those who defect to Jubilee?&quot; he posed. Arama said he was ready to face electorates in a by-election should ODM eject him from the party. &quot;I am more than ready for a by- election because I know am still popular on the ground,&quot; he said, adding that ODM frustrated him in 2013 when he won the party primaries but his ticket was given to someone else. &quot;In 2013 I had to go to court to get the ODM ticket. The party had illegally given it to the highest bidder. I am afraid that a similar scenario might occur next year,&quot; he said. Raila, his deputies; Governors Ali Hassan Joho and Wycliffe Oparanya, have in recent times repeatedly called for the expulsion of members who have registered intent of decamping the party for the newly formed Jubilee Party, which President Uhuru Kenyatta intends to use a reelection vehicle in next year&#39;s General Elections. Among the ODM members who are set to face the disciplinary board to be chaired by Fred Athuok is Budalang&#39;i legislator Ababu Namwamba &ndash; who has since launched his own party &ndash; the Labour Party of Kenya. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;