Retired President Mwai Kibaki is selling part of his 10,000-acre ranch in Nakuru worth billions of shillings. His family says the proceeds will be used to finance modern gatedhomes and pooled business properties in the area. According to details released by an authorised agent, about 700 acres has&nbsp;been hived&nbsp;off for sale from the 10,000-acre parcel Land Reference No. 9366/2 at Maili Saba in Bahati Constituency, along the Nakuru-Nyahururu Road. Reports indicated, depending on the demand, at least 5,000 acres is earmarked for sale. With an acre going for Sh11 million, if buyers come up well, the former President would be making Sh55 billion. When The Standard visited the site office that is adjacent to the expansive Gingalili Farm (1968) Ltd, two of the authorised agents took us through the sale details. They dished out brochures that explain the land size, prices and the facilities available. SALE PLAN &quot;We have sub-divided the 700 acres into 800 plots. An eighth of an acre goes for Sh1.5 million while an acre will be sold at Sh11 million,&quot; explained Mr Geoffrey Ndung&#39;u. READ MORE Leaked: President Uhuru&rsquo;s secret views on Kibaki, Raila Kibaki jets back to the country after treatment in South Africa Doctors give Kibaki clean bill of health Mr Ndung&#39;u said the management of the farm was also planning to put up a shopping mall, police station, two hospitals, parking bay and a sports club. Inside the temporary site office, a map for the entire property is pinned on the wall, as well as an authority to sell the land by J. M Theuri &amp; Associates who are believed to be working for the former president&#39;s family. &quot;We act for the proprietor of the above property and our instructions are to address you as follows: The company has resolved to sell the aforementioned land and we hereby give you the authority to market, identify and scout for interested buyers of the said property,&quot; the letter signed by Ms Juliet Theuri reads in part. Also pinned on the wall were details of a bank account for Gingalili (1968) Ltd where potential buyers were advised to deposit the funds. When reached for comment, the Kibaki family said it was developing a gated-community housing project on the farm, through the Kibaki family business, Gingalili (1968) Ltd. MORE DETAILS GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;