Congestion at the Likoni ferry crossing is expected to continue after the delivery of new modern ferries was delayed by three months. Kenya Ferry Services (KFS) Managing Director Bakari Gowa said the national government did not pay Ozata Tersanacecik Ltd, the Turkish firm building the vessels, on time. He said the state was however pushing the contractor to fast-track the construction, adding that the builder had already been paid. Ozata Tersanececik Ltd won the tender to design, build and commission the two ferries at a cost of Sh1.9 billion. They were to be delivered by February next year. But yesterday, Mr Gowa said the projected delivery timelines would not be met and that the new ultra-modern ferries would be delayed by three months. &ldquo;We expected the new ferries to be delivered early but we recently visited the contractor and although work is proceeding smoothly, delivery will be delayed because of late payment,&rdquo; he said. READ MORE Mother sues AG Githu Muigai, hospital for child's arm amputation Fix ferry services to avert looming disaster Two ferries break down in Mombasa IMPROVE SERVICES KFS said the two new ferries from Turkey would improve services at the Likoni crossing, which continues to face congestion owing to the swelling number of commuter and vehicles. Estimates by the ferry operator indicate that more than 300,000 commuters and 5,800 vehicles cross from the mainland daily, piling pressure on five ferries that operate on the channel. Gowa said only four ferries &mdash; MV Likoni, MV Nyayo, MV Kilindini and MV Kwale &mdash; were operational as MV Harambee had been withdrawn for repairs. MV Harambee, one of the oldest ferries on the channel, is currently in the dry dock where engineers are installing two new engines at a cost of Sh22 million. &ldquo;We received Sh350 million to repair all the vessels but we cannot withdraw them at once. By March next year, all the ferries will have been repaired,&rdquo; he said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;