Orange party leader Raila Odinga wants opposition MPs and governors who have defected to Jubilee Party to resign and seek re-election.&nbsp; He accused the party rebels of violating the Political Parties law and subsequently they should resign or be removed. &quot;We are challenging CORD legislators who have joined the Government to immediately resign and seek fresh mandate from the voters. If you think you do not belong to us and you are a man or woman worth your salt, then resign and meet us at the ballot,&quot; said Raila. Speaking at rallies in Mwatate, Wundanyi and Voi constituencies where he drummed up support for his presidential bid, Raila said CORD already had measures to strip them of their seats. &quot;They should resign and go back to the voters if they think they are popular enough,&quot; he said. He was accompanied by Taita Taveta Governor John Mruttu, Deputy Governor Mary Kibuka, MPs Thomas Mwadeghu (Wundanyi), Andrew Mwadime (Mwatate), Opiyo Wandai (Ugunja), Kisumu Woman Rep Rose Nyamunga and several MCAs. READ MORE Opposition to Vice Chancellor in bad taste Raila hits out at Jubilee Party in Coast tour Raila whips CORD MPs who defected to Uhuru Scathing attack Raila continued with his scathing attack on the Jubilee administration, accusing it of frustrating devolution and land reforms. He termed the Community Land Law Parliament passed and which was assented to by the President as unconstitutional and unworkable. Raila said the law had transferred community land from the county governments to the national government. &quot;The law is unconstitutional. We&#39;ll go to court to challenge it and have it reversed it for the benefit of poor Kenyans. Going by the past experience where marginalised communities, such as those living at the Coast, have been deprived of their land rights, we will not allow community land to be managed by the national government,&quot; he said. He also accused the Government of denying county governments resources and that was why key sectors such as health, agriculture and water, which are supposed to drive the economy, were performing poorly. &quot;This is despite the coming into force of the new Constitution that ushered in devolution.&quot; GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;