Karachuonyo MP James Rege says he is yet to decide on the party he will join after quitting ODM. Rege, who has been branded a rebel, said he ditched ODM because he is sure the party will deny him a ticket in next year&#39;s elections. He said he feared the new law banning party hopping would complicate things for him hence, he decided to leave early. &quot;I have taken precautionary measures early enough to avoid being caught up on the wrong side of the law that forbids party hopping. Participating in ODM nominations will ruin my political career if I am denied nomination ticket,&quot; said Rege. He said even though he attended the launch of the new Jubilee Party on Saturday, he has not joined the party and will make the decision on his next course of action in two-weeks time. Rege&#39;s troubles in ODM started in February last year when he supported Maendeleo Democratic Party candidate Philip Okundi in the Homa Bay Senate by-election, won by Moses Kajwang. READ MORE Beware, season of deceit with us Singer Bahati&rsquo;s bad showing Jubilee and CORD in war of words over defection by opposition leaders This did not go down well with a section of party officials, but Rege said he supported Okundi because of the shambolic ODM nominations. Rangwe MP George Oner also backed Okundi&#39;s candidature. Rege said he will also declare the seat he will for in the 2017 General Election in a fortnight. &quot;While it is official I have quit ODM, I am yet to decide which party I will join and whether I will vie for governor&#39;s or senatorial seats or to defend my seat in the National Assembly,&quot; he said. Rege added: &quot;I am still on the drawing board. However, I will make my plan for the people of Homa Bay when I am ready.&quot; &quot;I decided to quit ODM after consulting my family, friends and supporters, especially after I was branded a rebel and a mole within the party. I was no longer be trusted.&quot; &quot;I can easily win any seat in Homa Bay but I am sure ODM will not give me a nomination certificate. The reason is that I campaigned against the part during the Homa Bay senatorial by-election last year. My only aim was to ensure democracy prevailed,&quot; he said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;