A possible&nbsp;clash&nbsp;between ODM and&nbsp;Jubilee&nbsp;supporters has been&nbsp;averted&nbsp;after&nbsp;the former backed down on holding a rally at Masinde Muliro grounds in Mathare, in Nairobi today. Both parties had booked the same venue. Mathare MP Steven Kariuki yesterday said he had shelved plans to use the venue to popularise&nbsp;Jubilee&nbsp;Party (JP) and accused Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero of bulldozing to have ODM use the grounds. Earlier, ODM leaders had insisted they would not back down on plans to use the grounds. Addressing the Press at Orange House in Nairobi yesterday, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho asserted that they were not out to cause chaos insisting they would ensure peaceful activities. Mr Kariuki, who defected from ODM to JP, had earlier written to Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet seeking security ahead of the rally today. &ldquo;As you are aware, we recently launched the JP which will be our re-election party under the leadership of President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto. In this regard, there could be no other better way (than the rally) of popularising the party,&rdquo; read the letter in part. READ MORE Contest under other parties or face lock out, JP aspirants told Nominations headache splits ODM leaders Stand-off over rally venue quite unnecessary The MP protested that the governor had used his powers to ensure ODM was granted permission to use the Masinde Muliro grounds. &ldquo;Kidero bulldozed his way and using his powers directed that ODM be given the rights to use the grounds. However, will be holding our rally at Mulango Kubwa within the constituency. I hope they (ODM) will not come to disturb people here by being violent,&rdquo; said Kariuki. &nbsp;&nbsp; In the letter, the MP had indicated there will be also a development project inspection tour before the rally. Mr Joho said they were not bothered by the claims&nbsp;Jubilee&nbsp;was making on the grounds, insisting they booked the venue early enough. &ldquo;I am not in a position to speak for&nbsp;Jubilee. What I know is that we booked the venue early enough so that is their own business,&rdquo; he said. The governor said they will be making two &lsquo;major&rsquo; announcements to the Nairobi people: &ldquo;We are moving as ODM to address the serious issues affecting the common people. We have two main messages to pass on regards to leadership but we will also be addressing other issues.&rdquo; GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;