Tension and confusion reigned at a burial in Kisii after a section of the crowd heckled politicians when they stood up to address mourners. Former chairman of the defunct Commission for Implementation of the Constitution (CIC) Charles Nyachae, Senator Chris Obure, Kenya&#39;s ambassador to the Untied Nations Sam Ongeri and MP Stephen Manoti had to brave a hostile crowd at the burial of former Nyacheki Ward MCA, Peter Ongera, in Bobasi constituency on Friday. The youth disrupted Mr Nyachae&#39;s speech before police moved in and restored order. &quot;I have every right to address the public in any part of this county. We know some of our youths were paid to heckle some leaders but that will not stop us from achieving what we have started. There is nothing wrong in coming together to unite the community,&quot; said Nyachae. Sensing the mood on the ground, Mr Manoti urged the politicians to tone down their speeches. ODM Chairman John Mbadi and Kisumu Senator Anyang&#39; Nyong&#39;o represented Party leader Raila Odinga. READ MORE Three students killed in bus joyride Convicts still on the run as police close in Appeal judges spare man who killed kin from death sentence Obure and Prof Ongeri also faced the wrath of crowd forcing Nyanza Regional Commissioner Wilson Njenga who represented President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene. Mr Njenga warned local politicians against inciting the youth to cause chaos at rallies saying police were monitoring their actions. &quot;The law is clear on those funding such activities. We will not allow politically bankrupt politicians to take us back. I have witnessed what it is and let everybody know that we will not allow it,&quot; said Njenga. Prior to the burial, security personnel had been informed that chaos could erupt as some leaders had allegedly planned to ferry youths to the venue. Administration and regular police were stationed strategically at the venue and some formed a ring at the main podium. Kisii County Enforcement officers also helped to maintain order. Those planning the sitting arrangements ignored protocol. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;