The battle for the Malindi parliamentary seat between William Baraka Mtengo and Kilifi County MP Aisha Jumwa has been thrown into a spin following a surprise endorsement of the incumbent by two senior ODM officials in the county. &nbsp;Kilifi Senator Stewart Madzayo and ODM Kilifi official Anderson Ngombo publicly declared on Tuesday that they will rally support for Mtengo to retain the Malindi seat come 2017. The pronouncement by the two leaders has however received a backlash from Jumwa who has asked Madzayo and Ngombo to stay out of Malindi politics. The endorsement is likely to trigger tensions between Mr Mtengo and Ms Jumwa who are key lieutenants of Governor Amason Kingi. The debate emerged during a breakfast meeting at the governor Kingi&#39;s residence in Kilifi town where Jumwa and Mtengo exchanged bitter words. Governor Kingi said the two rivals have their own strategy of how to convince people of Malindi and win the party nomination and assured that he would back the people&#39;s choice, warning the two politicians not to engage in actions that give Jubilee advantage in 2017. READ MORE Raila to rally Rift and Nyanza supporters D-day for defectors as Raila ultimatum lapses Raila party takes search for votes to Ruto&rsquo;s political backyard &quot;We campaigned for Willy Mtengo extensively during the by election. Next year, Mtengo will have to face the same scenario as other candidates in a nomination process. That is democracy. All we want is for the ODM family to remain intact so that we retain the Malindi seat,&quot; said Kingi. The fallout between the two leaders began just a month after Mr Mtengo&#39;s victory in in the March 7, 2016 Malindi by-election that was hotly contested by Cord and Jubilee coalitions. Mr Mtengo trounced Jubilee&#39;s Mr Philip Charo after governor Kingi, his Mombasa counterpart Hassan Joho and Ms Jumwa camped in Malindi for two months to wrestle Jubilee team headed by Deputy President William Ruto. The seat had been left vacant after the elevation of Dan Kazungu who was head hunted by President Uhuru Kenya to head the Mining docket as Mining Cabinet Secretary. However it was apparent yesterday that the political honeymoon was over in ODM following the pronouncement by the two leaders. The move has put a load on Kilifi Governor Kingi in trying to quell the tension among the two leaders who had united to defeated Jubilee early this year. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;