The Meteorological Department has asked residents of areas currently being ravaged by drought to brace for tougher times. The weatherman said areas especially in Eastern region were likely to receive erratic rains over the October-December period. A new report by the department on the outlook for the next three months indicates that the Eastern sector of the country, one of the areas reeling under the effects of a severe drought, is likely to experience extended dry spells. According to the report, rainfall, particularly in the pastoral areas of the north-western and north-eastern regions, will be poorly distributed, with water scarcity-related problems expected to escalate. Acting Director of Meteorological Services Peter Ambenje said there was also potential for human-wildlife conflict over limited pasture and water resources in these areas. &quot;Close monitoring of the situation by the relevant departments as well as contingency measures are necessary to cope adequately with the situation,&quot; he said. Mr Ambenje said the potential impact of the October-December rains would interfere highly with agricultural activities in most of the areas. &quot;Foliage and pasture conditions in the pastoral areas of north-eastern, north-western and south-eastern Kenya are expected to deteriorate as a result of expected poor rainfall performance during the season,&quot; he added. Counties likely to receive below normal or near normal rainfall include Mandera, Wajir, Garissa and Isiolo in the Northern region, and Mombasa, Kilifi, Kwale, Lamu, Tana River and Taita Taveta at the Coast. Kiambu, Kirinyaga, Nyeri, Murang&#39;a, Nyandarua, Nairobi, Central and the North Rift, north-western, and the eastern Kenya counties of Machakos, Kitui, Makueni, Meru, Embu, Tharaka, Isiolo and Marsabit are also likely to receive below normal or near normal rainfall. The areas likely to receive near normal rainfall with a tendency for slightly above normal rainfall include the Western counties of Busia, Vihiga, Kakamega and Bungoma. Others are the Nyanza counties of Kisumu, Siaya, Homa Bay, Nyamira, Migori and Kisii. Kericho, Nandi, Bomet, Uasin Gishu, Trans Nzoia, Nakuru and Narok counties will also receive near normal to slightly above normal rainfall during this period. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;