Opposition chiefs and their allies are today expected to solve disquiet over a recent report on electoral reforms. Some have accused the team that represented CORD in the Joint Parliamentary Select Committee, co-chaired by Meru Senator Kiraitu Murungi and Siaya&rsquo;s James Orengo, of ceding too much ground. And today, co-principals Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula will meet at Ufungamano House where they hope to get a common stand on the report before it is tabled in Parliament for debate. A source said some of the issues CORD members are unhappy with is registration of voters which the committee agreed should be subjected to an international forensic audit. CORD had insisted there must be a clean voters register before the next General Election to guarantee free, fair, transparent and credible elections. &ldquo;Some members feel those who represented CORD ceded so much ground to Jubilee. The issue of voters register and allowing President Uhuru Kenyatta to pick the chairman of the new electoral agency are causing unease,&rdquo; said the source. READ MORE Banning party-hopping in Kenya is draconian CORD and Jubilee in scramble for Mudavadi ahead of 2017 election Dialogue is the way to go in resolving conflicts in Kenya But ODM Chairman John Mbadi (Suba) said today&rsquo;s meeting has been organised to take members through details of the report on the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. &ldquo;Members will also be taken through the draft bills so that when they are brought to the floor of the house, they can debate from an informed position,&rdquo; said Mr Mbadi. He said those unhappy with sections of the report would be given a chance to air their views but denied that it was part of the agenda. Head of CORD secretariat Norman Magaya said members will also be taken through the party&rsquo;s planned activities in the run-up to 2017 elections. Close ally Governors, senators, MPs and woman representatives are also expected to attend the special meeting. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;