A senior police officer was buried after one year as his widows tussled over his multi-million shilling property in Taita sub-County. And the dispute is far from settled. Former Embu West OCPD Nathan Nyange was buried on July 2, this year, at his rural home in Mwabwalo village on the outskirts of Wundanyi town. He died on May 8, 2015, but the corpse lay at the Pandya Hospital mortuary in Mombasa following a High Court injunction stopping the burial in May, last year, when his widows launched rival claims to it. Following a court order in Nairobi in May this year, it was transferred to Wesu Sub-County Hospital in Taita-Taveta County on June 26. ROW NOT OVER READ MORE Burial delayed for 16 months as two women fight for man's body Busia man loses bruising court battle to bury mother on late father's land Body of a man still in Kisumu mortuary 7 months later But The Standard has now established that the saga which surrounded the former police boss burial is far from over. Family sources disclosed that one of Nyange&rsquo;s widows has already gone to court to have his body exhumed, claiming that she was not involved in the burial arrangements. &ldquo;The younger widow of the deceased has already gone to court to have the body exhumed. She claims that she was not involved (in the burial) as the High Court had earlier directed,&rdquo; said one of Nyange&rsquo;s close relative who declined to be named. The court had ordered on February 16 this year by consent that the remains of the deceased should be released to the following three persons for burial: Dawtone Nyange Mwangemi (deceased brother), Lily Chemtai Chemweno (applicant) and Agnes Mwero Nyamvula (respondent). Lily and Agnes are the widows.&nbsp; The court also ordered that the burial shall be at Mwabwalo village in Wundanyi division. On July 2 the body was interred in a freshly dug grave after the family resolved the legal tussle. Elders rejected a grave that had been dug when he died last year but was abandoned when the legal dispute erupted. BODY RELEASED GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;