Members of the county assembly have only passed six bills since they were elected. According to civil rights groups and available data, MCAs, who are currently on a four-week break, have only debated and passed six Bills since 2013 when they were sworn in. According to information obtained by The Standard from from the assembly and interviews with some members, between April 2014 and February 10, 2015, a total of 17 Bills were tabled before the house and only three sailed through and were assented to by Governor Kinuthua Mbugua. The House Bill tracker indicates that nine of the proposed laws are still at the Second Reading stage while the rest are stuck at the Third Reading, a legislative stage where a vote is taken on the general outlines of the Bill before being committed to the committee of the whole House for amendments. &nbsp; INAUGURAL ASSEMBLY READ MORE CORD mulls consensus in picking its 2017 candidate More woes for Governor Gachagua as MPs storm his office Strive to slay the dragon of tribalism in Kenya Among the laws formulated by the inaugural assembly are the County Vetting and Appointment Act, the Alcoholic Act, the Public Entertainment and Amenity Act, The Petition to County Assembly Act, The county Vocational and Technical Act and the Agricultural Development law. A total of 21 draft Bills are still pending before the House as majority of the 74 MCAs prepare to face voters at the ballot in 2017. Ten statements from members are also still pending before various sectoral committees. The duration allocated by Speaker Susan Kihika for them to be dispensed with elapsed a month ago. Civil rights activists claimed that the Assembly was not interested in matters that would be beneficial to voters. &ldquo;Most of the pending businesses in the House are the ones that would improve the lives of the mwananchi,&rdquo; said Human Rights Activist David Kuria. A petition by a member of public to ban plastic bags below 100 micron is among the eight petitions still pending before the House. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;