Cord presidential hopeful Moses Wetangula is facing a backlash from his Ford Kenya party after party officials denied they had endorsed him as their Presidential flag bearer. The officials drawn from across the country told a chaotic press conference in Kisumu that Wetangula has been mismanaging the party and had not convened a delegates conference to pick a Presidential nominee. But delegates loyal to Wetangula tried to disrupt the press conference by shouting down other delegates, resulting in a stand-off. They gave Wetangula an ultimatum of 14 days to convene the National Delegate Conference to elect officials and endorse another presidential candidate or they convene it themselves. Led by Trans Nzoia Interim Chairman Ken Wafula, the officials accused their leader of mismanaging the party and even deliberately avoiding the celebrations to mark the party&#39;s 24th anniversary. The officials accused Wetangula of deliberately sidelining some regions and focusing his leadership in Western province. READ MORE ODM, Ford-K field separate candidates in by-election CORD leaders clash over 2017 ticket Delay in naming Cord flag bearer is strategic They cited Coast, Rift Valley, Central, Rift Valley, Eastern, Nyanza, some parts of Western and Nairobi as some of the regions that the party leader is avoiding. &quot;You cannot be the president of the country by focusing your campaigns in your own county,&quot;Lupesia Isomeso, the party chairman for Nairobi County. Isomeso criticized the appointment of Bhoni Khalwale as the deputy leader for the party saying that it was not done procedural. &quot;We are not against Khalwale because he is a vibrant leader who can help us in our quest to strengthen the party but Wetangula has no powers to appoint him. Democracy should have been allowed to take cause,&quot; added Isomeso. In a bitter exchange of words, one of the delegates Chris Mandu who is also Wetangula&#39;s close ally, was accused of misleading the Bungoma Senator. The leaders accused the Ford Kenya leader of waiting to be spoon fed in the race to get Cord&#39;s presidential ticket. &quot;Other Cord principals are busy traversing the country in a bid to strengthen their parties but our presidential candidate is doing nothing to strengthen the party,&quot;Nyabute Thomas, Kisii County Secretary general. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;