An MPs&rsquo; committee yesterday intensified negotiations to resolve the last hurdle on the numbers and terms of new electoral commissioners. The joint Parliamentary Select Committee on the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC), which has resolved the bulk of the concerns, decided to work late into the night to beat today&rsquo;s midnight deadline. Sources explained that CORD and Jubilee negotiators were yet to agree on whether seven or nine commissioners would be recruited in the new-look IEBC. The team also could not agree whether or not the commissioners should work full time. But a draft document seen by The Standard indicated that the committee, in its report, would recommend a negotiated dignified exit from office of the current IEBC commissioners, agreed on by the outgoing bosses with the Attorney General, the Treasury Cabinet Secretary and the Salaries and Remuneration Commission within two weeks of the adoption of the report by Parliament. The team would also recommend a seamless transition between the nine commissioners led by Issack Hassan and the new team. With respect to the IEBC secretariat, the committee is expected to recommend that the existing commission&rsquo;s disciplinary mechanisms be applied as appropriate. READ MORE Report of joint House select panel on electoral reforms Signs of a breakthrough over IEBC encouraging Uhuru, Raila step in to unlock IEBC stalemate The committee has reportedly agreed to a selection panel appointed by the President to recruit the new poll commissioners. The parties reportedly agreed that IEBC should engage an independent body to conduct a technical audit of the Principal Voters Register. The team agreed that for the purposes of the audit and for future maintenance of the register, the National Registration Bureau and all other agencies and institutions that hold information on Kenyan citizens should provide it electronically to the IEBC for cross-referencing. Selection panel The selection panel to pick new poll commissioners will consist of four persons; two men and two women, nominated by the Parliamentary Service Commission and one person each representing the Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops, the National Council of Churches of Kenya, the Evangelical Alliance of Kenya, Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims, the National Muslim Leaders Forum, the Kenya Council of Imams and Ulamaa, and the Hindu Council of Kenya. The Parliamentary Service Commission will provide secretariat services to the panel. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;