Jubilee wants former Anglican Church of Kenya (ACK) Archbishop Eliud Wabukala to be the next electoral commission chairman. Jubilee MPs led by Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria said the ruling coalition was pushing to have a cleric lead the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC). &quot;Archbishop Wabukala is capable of spearheading the commission,&quot; said Mr Kuria. Speaking at Ematiha Baptist Church in Navakholo, Kakamega County, the lawmaker revealed that Jubilee would front Wabukala who retired recently as ACK archbishop. &quot;IEBC officials have now left office. We are now in the process of forming another commission and as Jubilee, we want the position to be left for the church to handle it,&quot; he said. Lugari MP Ayub Savula and his Navakholo counterpart Emmanuel Wangwe welcomed the proposal. READ MORE Anania Mwaboza joins race to become Mombasa Governor Rebirth of PNU raises stakes in Mt Kenya amid realignments Independents keep off Jubilee Party ahead of grand launch next month &quot;We will support Wabukala to take over the mantle of IEBC as we prepare for the next elections. We are sure as a church leader, he will conduct free and credible elections,&quot; Mr Savula said. Mr Wangwe said: &quot;With Wabukala, who is a respected church leader, we will not have cases of people complaining that their votes were stolen. We will rally our support behind Wabukala to ensure he transforms IEBC ahead of the 2017 elections.&quot; The MPs also endorsed Water and Irrigation Cabinet Secretary Eugene for Nairobi governorship. Kuria said he was ready to hold Mr Wamalwa&#39;s hand to campaign in all corners of Nairobi to win the much-coveted seat. &quot;Nairobi is not meant for a particular community. Wamalwa is free to seek any elective seat in the country and if he says he wants to contest for Kiambu gubernatorial, seat I will support him,&quot; said Kuria. Mathare MP Stephen Kariuki urged Wamalwa to vie for the Nairobi seat. &quot;Nairobi does not belong to anyone. Everyone is free to seek the seat and as Jubilee, we must do everything possible to ensure we get the seat,&quot; Mr Kariuki said. &quot;Jubilee members will sit down and ensure the best candidate is given the mantle to win the seat,&quot; he added. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;