A shortage of sugar countrywide has pushed prices up drastically. A nationwide check by The Standard on Saturday yesterday indicated prices have shot up by almost Sh50 in most stores. The sweet commodity is increasingly becoming rare on supermarket shelves with some establishments dictating the amount a customer can buy. In Nairobi Mumias sugar was not available at Tuskys Tom Mboya, Nakumatt City Hall and Ukwala Tom Mboya. &ldquo;It is almost a week since we received the brand. We just hear that there is a shortage,&rdquo; said an attendant at Tuskys. At Tuskys, Kabras was the predominant brand with a two kilogram pack going for Sh260 yesterday. A month ago, another branch of Tuskys (Chap Chap) was selling a kilo at Sh110. At Ukwala, Nzoia was the predominant brand, and was selling at Sh130 per kilogram. At Nakumatt City Hall, a kilo of Mumias Fortified was going for Sh135 and Sh290 for two kilograms. Predominant brand READ MORE Sugar factories told to adhere to set cane prices Nzoia United eliminate holders Gor from Gotv race Auditor General report claims State owed Sh21 billion in loans granted to firms Interestingly, Nakumatt&rsquo;s own sugar was the predominant brand on the shelves. And the shortage is replicated countrywide. Nyanza, which is home to five sugar milling companies, hasn&rsquo;t been spared either. In fact, it is one of the worst hit regions. Some of the shopping malls are rationing the commodity. Nyanza is home to Chemelil, Kibos, Muhoroni, Sony and Sukari Sugar companies while Western region has Mumias, Nzoia, West Kenya and Butali factories. In Kisumu for instance, a kilo of sugar was being sold at between Sh120 and Sh130 up from between Sh90 and Sh110. A staff at Tuskys said they no longer stock Mumias because of inconsistent supply. &ldquo;Mumias is also the most expensive in the market,&rdquo; said the attendant who sought anonymity. At Naivas Supermarket, Mumias brand was the most expensive retailing at Sh270, the highest price so far compared to Ukwala where it retails at Sh255 per two kilograms. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 4 Next &raquo;