Warders at Murang&#39;a GK Prison are using lamps and torches to guard convicts after electricity was disconnected due to Sh500,000 bill. Operations have also been paralysed at the prison&#39;s industrial section due to the unpaid power bills. Warders&#39; quarters have also been hit by darkness after the Kenya Prisons Service reportedly failed to honour a payment agreement it had with Kenya Power. Wardens who spoke to The Standard on condition of anonymity told of dangers they are staring at after power was disconnected. Jailbreaks are looming as convicts and remandees may take advantage of the situation and attempt to escape, they said. &quot;Warders on night duty are forced to be extra careful lest they be attacked while ensuring prisoners don&#39;t escape. They are forced to use lamps which are not as effective,&quot; said one of the officers. After the electricity was disconnected, junior officers were reportedly directed to apply for individual electricity connections to avoid disruption whenever the government fails to pay bills on time. READ MORE Murang'a MCAs &lsquo;regret&rsquo; taking part in plotting impeaching governor Mwangi wa Iria Kenya Power employee electrocuted while replacing transformer in Kisumu Officials suspended for delayed road projects But warders have opposed the directive, saying the government ought to pay the bills for their houses and provide them with water as well. Murang&#39;a prison officer in-charge Billy Koshial said he will ensure power is restored. Meanwhile, Naivasha GK Prison has been hit by water crisis after power supply to its only borehole was disconnected over pending bills. As a result, there is fear of a disease outbreak at the prison that has close to 3,000 inmates. Also affected are those in the prison staff quarters. Their colleagues in the nearby Annex Prison have also been affected as they rely on water from the same borehole. This is the second time in as many months that Kenya Power has disconnected power supply to the borehole over a bill of Sh2 million. Prison management hired water bowsers to ease the crisis. Contacted on phone, the officer in charge Patrick Mwenda said the management is doing everything possible to resolve the problem. A senior public health officer who declined to be named said they may be forced to close down the facility if water supply is not restored. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;