Dozens of opposition leaders who defected from their mother political parties to join the Jubilee Party (JP) are hanging on a dangerous political cliff. Analysts say the defectors have twice as much challenge as their ex-Jubilee coalition colleagues. Running on a ruling party in opposition strongholds, the MPs and governors must confront perception issues as well as brave a raring opposition out to punish them for alleged betrayal. A critical mass of Kenyan voters is not yet fully liberated from the yoke of tribe in electoral considerations and regional contemplations continue to play a huge role in electoral choice, analysts say. &nbsp;&ldquo;From a purely pedestal political understanding, the defectors are generally not going back. But then you need political insights from individual regions to understand the dynamics at play and identify those who are definitely saying good bye to their careers and those who may not,&rdquo; Dr Francis Owakah of University of Nairobi says. President Uhuru Kenyatta, being the Jubilee candidate, will hold sway over Central, but his influence may bear little for his candidates in Lower Eastern, Coast, Nyanza and Western, Owakah says. READ MORE Raila: I&rsquo;ve no apologies over fiery exchange with President Uhuru MCAs dismiss Jubilee Party interim officials over face of Kenya Raila: Why Uhuru has refused to implement TJRC report years later &ldquo;The fact of the matter is that some of these fellows are going nowhere. This is necessarily true in some clear cases of individual leaders in Coast, Eastern and Western based on tested attitudes of voters and other considerations peculiar to those places,&rdquo; he says. While most of these leaders say they are ready to educate their supporters on their move, their former parties are asserting the end of their political careers and have written them off. Historically, defections from opposition into ruling parties have always been a dicey affair. &ldquo;What I can tell those from Wiper is that they are politically finished because they moved alone and people are waiting to mock them at the ballot. The only humble thing I ask them is to be honourable and resign. It would be dishonest if they continue to serve and earn salaries after they have cheated their voters,&rdquo; Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka told The Standard on Saturday. The party lost five MPs - Regina Ndambuki (Kilome), Richard Makenga (Kaiti) and Michael Munyao (Mbooni) from Makueni County and Joe Mutambu (Mwingi Central) and Munuve Mati (Mwingi North) from Kitui. Four other Ukambani MPs &ndash; Vincent Musau (Mwala- CCU), Victor Munyaka (Machakos Town &ndash; CCU), Francis Mwangangi (Yatta- Muungano) and Rachel Nyamai (Kitui South &ndash; Narc) also joined Jubilee. Musau, Munyaka and Mwangangi are erstwhile Musyoka allies who ditched Wiper over botched 2013 primaries and went on to beat the party candidates. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 4 Next &raquo;