Question: As the architect of the Sexual Offences Act 2006, has the law had the impact you intended? Ndung&rsquo;u: I do believe the law has served Kenyans as it was intended, which was to address the prosecution and management of sexual offences comprehensively. In 2006, statistics were showing that a rape was being committed on average every half an hour but the legal framework could not comprehensively address the situation. The law was no deterrent at all. Medical treatment for victims was inadequate and the processes of obtaining a P3 form was humiliating such that most crimes remained unreported. Previously, the law failed to address critical issues such as males being victims of such crimes and the double victimisation of complainants during the judicial process. Ten years later, the Act has brought clarity on the number and definition of offences, introduced stricter sentencing guidelines including minimum sentencing and the management of medical treatment and court processes that protect the dignity of victims. The law also acknowledges the use of modern technology such as DNA. The publicity surrounding the parliamentary debate also raised public awareness, addressing the stigma associated with these crimes and has increased reporting and prosecution of the same. Question:&nbsp;Judges have said the law is too punitive to young men and male minors. What is your take? Ndung&rsquo;u: Offenders under 18 are sentenced under the Borstal Institutions Act, which carries a maximum of three years. Minors do not get as harsh punishment as adults. Is the Penal Code too punitive for young men and male minors who commit other crimes? Why is it that sexual violence is different? Is it because the victims are largely female and the perpetrators male? Is this a basis for sympathy by those critics? Crimes against women and girls are crimes against citizens of the country. There are no bigger crimes or lesser crimes. There can be no double standard when it comes to the rule of of law. That would be a recipe for chaos and a breakdown of law and order. Criminals must face the law whatever their age, gender, race, tribe or class. Young people have been found culpable for crimes such as murder, manslaughter, robbery, theft and assault. They have been punished for it. Sexual Offences are not an exception. Yes, young men and minors are punished and serve prison terms when found guilty of sex crimes. And let us never forget women and female and male minors who are their victims and who live with the trauma of attack for the rest of their lives. Question:&nbsp;What challenges, if any, are evident in sexual offences law? Ndung&rsquo;u: Cultural and gender biases exist even among police officers and judicial officers who handle the cases. On occasions, some of these law enforcement officials try to seek a way to &lsquo;reconcile&rsquo; parties to the detriment of the victim and without due regard to the impact of releasing a criminal back into society without action on a crime committed. This is how repeat offenders are created and encouraged. It is called getting away with it. It works to protect perpetrators of sex crimes. The Sexual Offences Act provides that once crime is reported, it cannot be withdrawn easily as it could in the past. Only the Attorney General can recommend this. But there are still incidences involving corrupt police officers, State counsel and judicial officers who try and craft a way out for the perpetrator. There are many instances of acquittals in the face of real and proven evidence where some judicial officers misread the law or apply standards of proof that are outside of the law. Some of these actions are deliberate but others are mistakes that happen. Officers should apply the written law strictly and not read into the law extraneous criteria that is not included in the Act. More training ought to be done to ensure a greater understanding of the law, its context in this country and the removal of biases created by cultural and religious beliefs that still exist in the minds of some legal practitioners. READ MORE Two convicts set free from life jail terms in defilement cases for lack of evidence Form One student hacked to death after suspected rape Judges in Kenya root for review of Sexual Offences Act to end unfair penalties Question:&nbsp;There are suggestions that some sections of that law should be removed or changed. An example, lowering the number of sentence years. Are the proposed changes necessary? Ndung&rsquo;u: Minimum sentencing is an effective deterrent and prevents abuse of discretion by judicial officers. At the passing of the Sexual Offences Bill into law, there were concerns about this. Magistrates could give one-day sentences for rape of minors and other victims. Other serious offenders would get away with a mere fine. In other cases, the judicial officer would allow for settlement between the victim&rsquo;s family and accused or reconcile them. The situation was really out of hand.- This was a big source of corruption within the judicial system. Minimum sentencing was deliberately introduced by Parliament to deal with the vice and it has been successful. Question:&nbsp;Would you propose any changes based on experience in interpreting the law or should Kenya have even more harsh penalties to tame the vice? Ndung&rsquo;u: Not at this time. Key amendments were made in 2007 after consultations with key stakeholders including the police, office of the DPP and Judiciary. The implementation of the Act and its attendant rules and regulations is still on-going and should be completed before any comprehensive amendments, if any are proposed. Question: Has the Sexual Offences law influenced developments elsewhere outside the country and what forums have you been invited to speak about it? Ndung&rsquo;u: Yes, I have been involved at the regional and international level sharing experiences on the Act. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;