&nbsp; ODM deputy leader Ali Hassan Joho promised to lead a peaceful procession of party supporters to Masinde Muliro grounds in Mathare at noon today. PHOTO: COURTESY The Orange Democratic Movement has promised to make two main announcements in Nairobi today. ODM deputy leader Ali Hassan Joho promised to lead a peaceful procession of party supporters to Masinde Muliro grounds in Mathare at noon today. Area MP Steven Kariuki announced that he had shelved his plans to hold a Jubilee rally at the same venue. On Friday, the two parties announced that they would use the venue for what they termed as popularisation of their political outfits and presidential candidates. Announcing his decision to back down on his proposed rally, Kariuki blamed Nairobi City Governor Evans Kidero of &ldquo;bulldozing his way to secure the venue for ODM&rdquo;. A possible clash between ODM and Jubilee supporters has been averted after the former backed down on holding a rally at Masinde Muliro grounds in Mathare, in Nairobi today. READ MORE NORWAY: Origi suspended over bust up with teammate Kenya police choppers&rsquo; crash worrying Four injured as newly acquired police chopper crashes in Nairobi Both parties had booked the same venue. Mathare MP Steven Kariuki yesterday said he had shelved plans to use the venue to popularise Jubilee Party (JP) and accused Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero of bulldozing to have ODM use the grounds. Earlier, ODM leaders had insisted they would not back down on plans to use the grounds. Addressing the Press at Orange House in Nairobi yesterday, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho asserted that they were not out to cause chaos insisting they would ensure peaceful activities. Mr Kariuki, who defected from ODM to JP, had earlier written to Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet seeking security ahead of the rally today. &ldquo;As you are aware, we recently launched the JP which will be our re-election party under the leadership of President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto. In this regard, there could be no other better way (than the rally) of popularising the party,&rdquo; read the letter in part. The MP protested that the governor had used his powers to ensure ODM was granted permission to use the Masinde Muliro grounds. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;