KENYA: Teachers pursuing higher education at Laikipia University, Embu campus have protested the closure of the institution saying they will lose on 15 per cent fee waiver on tuition that they had agreed on. Led by Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) trustee John Gitari, they said the move by the Commission for University Education (CUE) to close down several university campuses in the country had disadvantaged them. Gitari said the Embu knut branch had entered into an agreement with the university for the waiver that was also to be enjoined by a teacher who is a union member, the spouse and children. He said the waiver was accommodated in an arrangement with Embu College, which housed the Laikipia University campus. &quot;The waiver ceased to exist when the campus was closed. Teachers now risk losing millions of shillings that they would have saved on tuition. Some teachers were to save up to Sh100,000 in the deal,&quot; he said. Gitari said the waiver had motivated many teachers to pursue higher education, adding that they would incur even more expenses in transportation and accommodation to Laikipia university main campus to proceed with their studies. READ MORE Does State, private varsities deal make economic sense? University of Nairobi takes lion&rsquo;s share of students as over 6,000 report CUE lowers audit rates for varsities in Kenya, calls for compliance Civil engineer and educationist Cyrus Njiru expressed disappointment at the closing up of the campus without making necessary arrangements for the affected students. Njiru and Gitari called for dialogue between CUE, Laikipia University and Knut to find solution to the impasse and rescue teachers from the impeding loss. &quot;The education ministry must find ways to assist those affected and ensure they proceed with their studies up to graduation,&quot; said Njiru, who is a former transport permanent secretary. The two leaders said the shutting down of the campus was a blow to Embu County as it was a major investment that would have stimulated growth. Gitari faulted the closure arguing that Embu College which accommodated the campus has well stocked libraries and learning facilities and has always topped in national and international exams.