NAIROBI: A constant message from many people has been to keep politics out of funerals; they are solemn occasions. The reality however has been different. Funerals have become an ideal battleground for political titans. The pace at which this is happening is so alarming that ordinary Kenyans are gripped with election fever. As a modern-day campaign platform and strategy, politicians have mobilised key supporters in almost all areas of their voting constituency and beyond to turn out at funerals. Undoubtedly, funerals are now becoming a serious political platform. Many politicians are attending funerals of people they do not know and sending condolences to families that they know not. In some instances, politicians have been given a chance to speak at funerals only to show ignorance about the deceased. In Kenya, the use of funerals for political scores gained currency and grew during the one-party Kanu rule when ordinary citizens and opposition leaders were denied avenues of free expression. Meetings organized by the then &lsquo;opposition&rsquo; were broken up or cancelled at the eleventh hour on flimsy grounds. Then, politicians&rsquo; only one option was funerals, where the licence could neither be cancelled nor denied. It is in this light that the recent incident involving a war of words between President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition Leader Raila Odinga can be understood. READ MORE Ugandan MPs&rsquo; Sh1.5m burial plan sparks outrage Relief for Malakisi residents as county leaders issue title deeds Ironically, the President was responding to Raila Odinga&rsquo;s remarks on Ntimama&rsquo;s party loyalty yet he had earlier told the congregation he would not speak politics. However, in his concluding remarks, he blasted the Opposition for involving themselves in Jubilee&rsquo;s matters. Even former Cabinet minister Simeon Nyachae broke his silence on Kisii politics since retiring nine years ago during the burial of his first wife, Estheri Nyaboke, in Nyosia village in Nyaribari Chache, Kisii, last month. Nyachae called on Kisii politicians to shun divisive politics and instead concentrate on the social and economic agenda of the community. Just weeks ago, the clergy in western Kenya demanded that politics be banned in funerals after Senator Boni Khalwale allegedly insulted Governor Kenneth Lusaka during the funeral of Likuyani MP Enoch Kibunguchi&rsquo;s mother. And now, Nyamira Senator Kennedy Mong&rsquo;are says it is against the African culture to politic at funerals. The senator says he is set to rally senators to introduce a Motion in the Senate that will seek to end political battles during funerals. How that plays out is a different story. However, it is important to know that even National Assembly majority leader Aden Duale last year had indicated he was going to file a motion in the National Assembly seeking to ban politicians from speaking at funerals. We are yet to hear anything on it. The social implication of politics at funerals is plain to see. At a time when people are mourning and consoling the bereaved, the last thing they want to hear is politics. Or is it? GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;