Over Sh500 million recovered from the Jersey graft case will help construct rehabilitation centres, President Uhuru Kenyatta has said. President Kenyatta said the proceeds will also help set up and safe houses to protect women from gender-based violence. The President reiterated he would not relent in its war against corruption. &quot;Those who loot public money will be forced to return it,&quot; President Kenyatta said. He was speaking at State House, Mombasa, when he addressed more than 8,000 youths, women and elders drawn from the six counties of the Coast region. He assured them of his government&#39;s commitment to mainstreaming youth and women affairs in the development agenda. Uhuru urged Coast residents to work with the Jubilee Government for development. He outlined various development projects his administration has implement in the region since it came to office ranging from infrastructure and water projects to electricity connections and issuance of title deeds. &quot;We are delivering the promise we made. We have constructed more roads, connected more houses to electricity and issued more title deeds in the last three years than had been done since independence,&quot; the President said. READ MORE President Uhuru declares war on illegal fishing vessels Exam staff pay fear as ranking returns to Kenya schools President Uhuru and Governor Joho meet after months of 'cold war' Kilifi North MP Gedion Mung&#39;aro and Mijikenda elders&#39; secretary Vincent Mwachiro said the region will support the Government because of the projects it has implemented. Mung&#39;aro cited the Kaloleni &ndash; Mavueni, the Mariakani &ndash; Kaloleni, Maji ya Chumvi-Voi, Mwatate&ndash;Wundanyi, Mwatate&ndash;Taveta, Bamba &ndash;Mariakani, Malindi &ndash; Sala Gate, Malindi &ndash; Garsen and Lunga lunga-Vanga as some of the roads that are either complete or are under rehabilitation. Other speakers were Rev. Samuel Kobia and Red Cross Secretary General Abbas Gullet, who spoke on peace and cohesion.&nbsp; Cabinet Secretaries Joseph Nkaissery (Interior) and Sicily Kariuki (Public Service) outlined what their ministries are doing to promote security.