NAIROBI: The National Olympics Committee of Kenya (NOCK) yesterday shocked MPs when it revealed it paid over Sh5 million for accommodation of senior government officials, including President Uhuru Kenyatta, during the Rio Olympics. NOCK said it had received instructions from Sports Cabinet Secretary Hassan Wario to pay for accommodation of the President on a cruise ship, but the President did not travel to Brazil. The committee paid Sh2.2 million for the accommodation on the Othon Palace cruise ship, for 18 days the President was booked in Rio. Other than the President, NOCK also admitted it footed the accommodation costs for the chairs of two parliamentary committees who also never turned up. The accommodation was instead taken up by other members of the team, one of them, the chair of the the National Anti-doping Agency James Waweru and chair of the Sports Fund Sam Kairu. The rooms, costing a total of Sh2.6 million were meant for David Were, the chair of the Labour committee (National Assembly) and his Senate counterpart Stewart Madzayo. READ MORE Address IOC&rsquo;s threat to sanction Kenya Here is the meaning of the word 'joyrider' that Rio popularised NOWHERE TO HIDE: NPSC says emabttle Soi no longer in National Police Service &ldquo;In a meeting on 14th June with the Cabinet Secretary and the Principal Secretary, directions were given that I had to book a room for the President on the cruise ship. I was further told to book rooms for the two principal secretaries, chairman of the Sports Fund and the Controller of Budget and the chair of the Anti-Doping Agency,&rdquo; said&nbsp;Stephen Soi, head of delegation to the games. &ldquo;The matter of accommodation was discussed between the Cabinet Secretary and NOCK was not involved,&rdquo; said Soi. The admission was the culmination of grilling by the committee, which is inquiring into allegations of mistreatment of athletes and team officials during the games. DEPLORABLE CONDITIONS Some athletes are said to have lived in deplorable conditions in Brazil, while others missed air tickets. Some officials are said to have colluded to steal the team&rsquo;s sportswear provided by Nike. NOCK blamed the CS for the mess, including the booking of the executive accommodation. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;