A few days ago I came across an advert for home ownership. There are reasons why housing interests me to such an extent that I feel the sector is full of contrasts. Real estate has become one of the most attention-grabbing phenomena in Kenya, yet mortgages remain out of the reach of most people. Inversely though, I came across an article in the paper which stated that since its launch in 2013, the invitation for bids to investors and developers to build low-cost housing for civil servants failed with abysmal uptake. Back to the advert though. Since it was being aired on satellite TV, and the images looked foreign, I assumed that the product was one developed for Southern Africa and I was curious to see how their mortgage pricing compared to Kenya&rsquo;s. Surprisingly, when the end of the advert came up, I discovered it was a Kenyan institution and a Kenyan product that was on offer. While this is not the first time we have come across ads for this market being shot in other countries, these incidents go far beyond ads into many other aspects of media including printing (magazines) and movies. In some cases, I do acknowledge that where pan-African organisations are concerned, their policies could dictate diversity in the locations featured in the adverts. However, apart from these policy-driven instances, the preference of other countries for different aspects of media signals a disconnect in our own national policies and the potential economic gain. READ MORE Mining forum launched in industry growth plan Recurrent expenditure eats 97pc of Exchequer's releases Visitors from India prefer e-visa, says envoy Historically, Kenya has been regarded as an ideal location for filming movies or iconic scenes therein. From &lsquo;Theo&rsquo;, the first movie about a former US President Theodore Roosevelt&rsquo;s Safari screened in 1910, the country emerged as a favourite location for Safari adventure films. This was followed by notable productions such as &lsquo;Out of Africa&rsquo;, which gained international acclaim and established the country&rsquo;s landscape as an ideal backdrop for dramatic scenery. In comparison to these early years though, the country is now in what seems to be a losing bid to reclaim its lost glory. More and more instances of lost opportunities are surfacing, and with them the preferences for locations such as South Africa and more recently Morocco taking precedence for filming indigenous Kenyan scenes. It is said that the &lsquo;Westgate&rsquo; movie, a Hollywood film about the 2013 terror attack on the Nairobi mall by the same name may be filmed in South Africa. Government representatives are on the record stating that this is not a done deal and that the country is in talks regarding Kenya as the location of choice. Apparently, we are hoping that the rebates put in place for Kenya&rsquo;s film industries will incentivise producers to abandon South Africa and come running to Kenya. This is in spite of a clear implementation framework for these incentives being released, and as far as we know, the said rebates only exist on paper so far. And this is where our problem lies. Our challenges are not around fancy and appealing blueprints, rather the goodwill and commitment towards carrying them out. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;