NAIROBI: Leaders from all walks of life have continued sending their messages of condolence following the passing away of veteran politician William ole Ntimama. In his message, President Uhuru Kenyatta said the late Ntimama was a great leader who devoted the prime years of his life to the service of Kenya. &ldquo;His unwavering loyalty and service is exemplary and self-evident. And his devotion to our national cause and values will forever remain etched in our minds. Indeed, Kenyans will always be grateful for the crucial role Ntimama particularly played in our independence struggle,&rdquo; Uhuru said in a statement sent to newsrooms. Uhuru also noted that Ntimama who was 86-year old had a sterling performance as the Member of Parliament for Narok North, Cabinet Minister and an elder of the Maa community who will remain source of inspiration and motivation to many aspiring leaders. &ldquo;Ntimama was equally generous, cheerful and friendly. To everyone who knew and had the opportunity to interact with him, he was a person of enormous influence and outstanding ability. His wise counsel and guidance will, indeed, be missed by many.&rdquo; The president said. On his part, Opposition leader Raila Odinga said the demise of Ntimama was a personal loss to him. &ldquo;We will remember Bill (Ntimama) as an untiring advocate for the rights of indigenous communities who have been trampled on from the colonial times, through post-colonial Kenya to date,&rdquo; Raila said in a statement. &nbsp; READ MORE Raila: ODM will win power Former Cabinet Minister William ole Ntimama is dead MPs buckle under pressure to pass Bill on party hopping Raila noted that Ntimama was particularly passionate about the uplifting of his long deprived Maasai community and the community&rsquo;s land rights and that his passion for the welfare of the Maa in particular and other pastoral communities in general turned him into a strong champion of environmental conservation. &ldquo;He understood that environment is life not only for pastoralists but for all humanity.&rdquo; Raila said. The CORD leader added that the demise of Ntimama was not just a loss to his family but the whole nation. He said: &ldquo;His death deprives the country of a critical voice on critical issues that the nation ought to confront. We have lost a forward looking man who, despite his advancing age and failing health, always believed that better days lay ahead.&rdquo;