Thousands of mourners yesterday braved unforgiving heat in Narok County to give a heroic send off to the late veteran politician William ole Ntimama. The mourners converged at his Motonyi home yesterday for the burial of the man who had led the Maa community for over 30 years and who united current and former leaders who came to pay their last respects. Leaders including President Uhuru Kenyatta, former President Daniel arap Moi, former Tanzania PM Edward Lowassa, Cord Principal Raila Odinga, governors, MPs, Cabinet Secretaries and other leaders joined Maa community in elaborate ceremony led by Archbishop of Kenya Jackson Ole Sapit. The road to his Motonyi home from Narok town was jam-packed with traffic and as members of Maa community from neighbouring Kajiado, Samburu, Laikipia and Tanzania joined Narok residents in mourning the fallen leader. Traffic snaked slowly from Narok town to the late Ntimama&#39;s home located 10 kilometres from the town as tens of leaders landed in more than ten helicopters. The ceremony began few minutes past 10am as the casket entered the venue accompanied by members of his family. The ceremony was, however, delayed for about two hours as leaders trickled in one by one and officially kicked off with the arrival of President Kenyatta few minutes to noon. READ MORE Man claiming to be late Ntimama's son blocked from taking part in burial President Uhuru, Opposition leader Raila political rivalry plays out during Ntimama's burial Narok library defines Ntimama's legacy Cheered loudly The arrival of Cord principal Raila excited the mourners who cheered loudly as he was introduced few minutes before President Uhuru. Security in and out of the home was tight with officers from regular police, Kenya Prisons and National Youth Service conducting thorough security screening of all mourners who thronged the venue to pay their last respects to the revered Maasai leader. The mourners who donned their traditional red Maasai shukas walked into the huge tents erected at his farm as early as 7am with many keen to secure seats strategically to catch a glimpse of the well planned ceremony. Ntimama who was remembered for his terse defence of Maasai community land rights and culture was given a heroic send-off befitting his stature as leaders across political divide put aside their differences to celebrate the Maasai hero. The veteran politician served in President Moi as well as President Kibaki&#39;s Cabinet and in the Coalition Government.Elders from Nyangosi clan performed final burial rites before the casket containing his remains was taken to his home for a private final send-off. The ceremony was marked with slaughter of over 100 bulls and 700 goats and sheep to provide enough food for hundreds of mourners who thronged his family home. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;