MOMBASA: A young man charged with touching a woman&#39;s buttocks and breasts in Mombasa has told a magistrate he was carried away by her beauty after five months of unsuccessful seduction. He admitted touching those parts but claimed he lost control of his hands at the sight of the woman who he described as intensely beautiful and striking. The suspect who pleaded guilty on Thursday was freed on bond without being convicted after the magistrate declined to accept his guilty plea. And the police station OCS where he was detained from Monday has been asked to appear in court to explain why the suspect was not charged within 24 hours. The magistrate said he wants to listen to the woman before passing judgement and ordered that the matter must proceed to full hearing. Alexander Mbondo who was charged with the crime of indecent assault found himself in troubles after Colleta Mutua reported him at Central Police station in Mombasa where the police officers in turn charged him with indecent assault. &quot;Your honour it is true I touched the buttocks and breasts of this girl because I have been seducing her in order to marry her as I am still a single man. I swear I love this woman&quot; said Mbondo. READ MORE Six-lane Mombasa-Nairobi Highway bidding to start Kenya on the road to becoming maritime economy, says Cabinet Secretary Panic as 30 tourism colleges found unsuitable Mbondo told Mombasa Principle Magistrate Henry Nyakweba that he was very sorry for fondling the woman and asked for forgiveness if he did a wrong thing in seducing a woman he had fallen in love with. &quot;It true I have been seducing this woman at Coast Drapers in Fontanella building but I am very sorry for my action. I am asking the court to forgive me&quot; said Mbondo with his hands up to emphasise point. But Nyakweba who listened keenly to Mbondo declined to accept that the accused had pleaded guilty to the offence. &quot;I have listened to your explanation and I find that you have pleaded not guilty. I want your accuser to come and give her side stories so that we can know who was in the wrong&quot; said Nyakweba. Nyakweba who insisted Mbondo had pleaded not guilty summoned Central Police Station Officer in Charge of Station OCS to come to court on Monday and explain to the court why Mbondo was arrested on Monday and brought to the court two days after the arrest. The magistrate also sought to know from the prosecution if the charges against the accused was in line with what the law says. But the prosecution confirmed that the police were right in preferring the charges against the accused. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;