In the last one week at least three private universities have publicly listed the government sponsored students they have admitted. Others might follow soon. It is the first time the government is taking this step. What informed this decision? Does it make economic sense? There could be two reasons. One, the government is opening more opportunities for our kids to pursue higher education. Two, and this is said in whispers; the government has given some private universities an economic lifeline. It is public knowledge that competition in higher education is driving some private universities to economic dire straits. That was long expected. We even asked sometimes ago if higher education has not reached the shakeout stage. If you are in the CBD at 8pm you may not believe that universities have problems with numbers. Droves of youngsters walk towards bus stations on their way home. But divide all these youngsters among almost 70 or so universities and foreign universities and they are reduced to a trickle for each university. Noted the university adverts in both electronic and print media? Add the opening of campuses in every village ad hamlet and competition starts taking a toll on finances of the private universities, which unlike public ones are not assured of government capitation. Economies of scale and scope really matters in higher education. Once you built a university or college, it becomes hard to convert it to an alternative use. READ MORE University of Nairobi takes lion&rsquo;s share of students as over 6,000 report New varsity payment rates reduced Zahra Bahlewa Moi awarded Masters degree Faculty specialisation adds another cost to higher education. Proliferation of courses of study, some which are confusing to students has not made matters better. Recently a parent wrote to me asking me how to differentiate among the following: BSc Statistics vs. BSc Economics &amp; Statistics vs. Bachelor of Economic &amp; Statistics, Bachelor in Justice &amp; Security Studies vs. Bachelor of Security Studies &amp; Criminology and BSc Information Science vs. BSc Information Technology vs. Business Information Technology. He added, &ldquo;Which course is better than the other and what&rsquo;s their target market?&rdquo; Am still doing my research. There is another hidden factor in competition for students in higher education, decline in population growth. Data from World Bank shows that Kenya population growth rate declined from the peak of 3.22 per annum in 1982 to 2.47 around 1998. It has remained around that rate. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;