It has emerged that the Opposition CORD is planning to use consensus to pick its presidential flag bearer. The coalition is considering consensus so as to avoid a fallout and cracks within it that may be caused by unpopular methods of identifying a flag bearer. The Standard has also learnt that there is a six-member technical committee currently working on the framework of the methods to be used apart from consensus. The committee comprises of CORD&#39;s management committee co-chairs Siaya Senator James Orengo (ODM) and his Machakos counterpart Johnstone Muthama (Wiper) and Tongaren legislator Eseli Simiyu (Ford-Kenya). However, the Opposition is also considering the use of delegates from the ODM, Wiper party and Ford Kenya. Yesterday, CORD Secretariat boss Norman Magaya said the Opposition has a template of how they arrived at the Presidential candidate in the 2013 general polls and will still use the same. READ MORE Ruto won't join Jubilee party, vows to popularise Mashinani Strive to slay the dragon of tribalism in Kenya 35 MPs and five governors to dump Opposition for new Jubilee outfit &quot;We had a template in 2013 and we intend to use that template. We used consensus but we have a technical committee drafting up a framework that if we don&#39;t use consensus, then we will have other options,&quot; said Mr Magaya. Until then, CORD leaders Raila Odinga (ODM), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) and Moses Wetang&#39;ula (Ford Kenya) are to popularise their respective parties. Each of the three parties will hold their respective National Delegates Convention (NDC) to pick its Presidential candidate before a joint delegates conference if there will be need. In the event that consensus is not reached, the coalition partners will each provide delegates for the joint convention at which the presidential flag bearer will be selected. According to Magaya, the details of the number of delegates to the joint conference and the method to be used is still under scrutiny by the technical committee. &quot;We intend to use a method that is not acrimonious, one that seeks to sustain the unity of CORD and one that will ensure we get a credible candidate ready to dislodge Jubilee from power,&quot; said Magaya. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;