Anxiety is growing within the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) following claims some party officials were intimidating political office hopefuls while promising others free nomination tickets. On a day the party marked its 10th anniversary with pomp and fanfare in Mombasa, its top leaders &mdash; national Chairman John Mbadi and National Elections Board Chair Judy Pareno &mdash; issued a warning to individuals trying to interfere with the party&rsquo;s 2017 plans. This follows claims that some officials and activists were already drawing lists of aspirants, including governors, who will not be cleared to run on the party&rsquo;s ticket in next year&rsquo;s elections. Gem MP and National Assembly Deputy Leader of Minority Jakoyo Midiwo sparked off the anxiety on Tuesday when he named a senior official who he accused of intimidating aspirants and promising their opponents direct nominations. Integrity issues &ldquo;It is wrong for some of us to threaten aspirants that they will not be given certificates. We must watch our language,&rdquo; Midiwo told a Kisumu-based radio station during a live interview. READ MORE Parties must invest heavily in fair nominations Ababu&rsquo;s silence raises questions on &lsquo;Third Force&rsquo; 40 defectors get rousing welcome into Jubilee party He claimed the official had told a governor at a restaurant in Nairobi that ODM will not clear him to defend his seat. He said the party can only deny an aspirant a ticket if he/ she has integrity issues. But on Friday, Midiwo changed tune and said that ODM governors who cannot explain how they spent funds allocated to their counties should be locked out during nominations. Midiwo accused some governors of failing to stop corruption within&nbsp; their governments. &ldquo;Some of these people have been stealing our money and we cannot re-elect them to continue stealing. They will not be in our line-up,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;We spent a lot of time campaigning for them but they only went there to mismanage the tax payers&rsquo; money. These are the people who should be locked out of the elections.&rdquo; But Ms Pareno cautioned leaders against remarks about issuance of party tickets ahead of the 2017 elections. In an interview with The Standard on Sunday, Ms Pareno said only the elections board has the mandate to handle party primaries and issuance of certificates. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;