MOMBASA: Details of the three women terrorists who attacked Mombasa Central Police Station on Sunday continued to emerge as police arrested three more suspects yesterday. The three suspects, all refugees from Somalia and who are believed to have been living together with the terrorists who were gunned down, have given credence to detectives&rsquo; fears that terror cells are using women to launch brazen attacks in the country. Also arrested is one male suspect said to have been staying with the young women. The three suspects, Saeda Ali Haji, Naema Nahamed Ali and Shukri Ali, are said to have been hosted by the suspected mastermind of the attack, Tasmin Yakub Abdullahi Farah, in Kibokoni and are now in custody assisting the police with investigations. Counter-terrorism investigators are puzzled by this emerging new trend by terror networks. Female terrorists, they said, will further complicate the war against terror because women have the added advantage of being able to conceal weapons under the buibui - a flowing black dress covering the women&rsquo;s entire body except the&nbsp; face or, in some cases, the eyes. Besides, women are presumed to be non-violent and may not attract the attention of the public and police, which makes them attractive prey for terror recruiters. READ MORE One of Mombasa police station attackers did her KCSE in 2013 Three assailants killed in Mombasa police station attack It&rsquo;s a dark day in Mombasa, says Joho after police station attack Police say two of the female terrorists killed on Sunday studied at one of the coastal city&rsquo;s Islam schools, with one graduating last year. And an unidentified man in whose house they lived in Kibokoni before staging the raid was arrested yesterday morning as reports emerged that Tasmin, who was killed in the raid, was most likely the mastermind behind the attack. The heavily built woman - about six feet tall - was felled by two police bullets. Police officers who asked not be named said she has been linked to extremist ideologies and foreign radical groups on the Internet. terror links Her nationality is not known but she lived in Kibokoni for years and recently hosted three women currently being held with regards to the attack. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;