The Auditor General has declared that Sh215 billion from Kenya&rsquo;s controversial Eurobond funds has not been accounted for, two years after the Government claimed the cash was allocated to ministries. The finding comes in Government audit report, which shows that, contrary to claims that the funds were allocated to some ministries, there is no proof of &ldquo;receipt of expenditure&rdquo; of this money anywhere in government. &ldquo;Investigations into the receipts, accounting and use of funds related to the Sovereign/Euro Bond are still ongoing and the accuracy of the net proceeds of Sh215, 469,626,035.75 is yet to be ascertained,&rdquo; says Auditor General Edward Ouko. For instance, the report narrows down to the Ministry of Water and Irrigation, which was said to have received sh11.2 billion, but whose officials failed to show any documentation of receipt and expenditure. &ldquo;The management has not provided any list of project(s) that were funded by the Eurobond proceeds. In the circumstance, it has not been possible to confirm how the Eurobond funds were utilised,&rdquo; states the report. As the country awaits the conclusion of the investigations, taxpayers will be required to pay Sh17.8 billion in interest payments on the Eurobond loan in the current financial year, the biggest single interest on a loan currently being serviced by the government. READ MORE Uhuru asks African legislators to fight illicit financial flows Auditor General reveals how mining companies under-declare tax dues Auditor questions reduced State shares in KCB And the Water Ministry&rsquo;s failure to provide a list of Eurobond-funded projects or show proof of expenditure could reignite debate on what projects were actually funded by the borrowed billions, which Kenya is already repaying. The Government floated the Eurobond in June 2014 on the Irish stock exchange to raise money for infrastructure development in Kenya. The flotation raised Sh250 billion. The essence of borrowing from the international markets was to lower interest rates in the country as envisaged by President Uhuru Kenyatta when he pushed for the Bond. Rates skyrocketed However, questions emerged when the Government returned to the local banks to borrow even as local interest rates skyrocketed. Investigations by Parliament then revealed that the Government did not deposit the Eurobond proceeds in the Consolidated account, as required by law, but instead had first put the money in offshore accounts. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;