I am ready to work with the Coalition for Reforms and Democracy (CORD) to ensure the Jubilee coalition is trounced in next year&rsquo;s polls, Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi has said. Bolstered by defections by elected leaders to his party, Mudavadi said he was willing to join hands with CORD principals to ensure victory in the 2017 General Election. The Amani leader, who is on a three-day tour of the Coast region to popularise his party, said: &ldquo;We should not allow the Jubilee coalition to run down this country for another term and if it means joining hands with my brothers at CORD, then I am ready for the sake of Kenyans.&rdquo; Divisive politics Speaking in a phone interview with The Standard on Sunday, Mudavadi however said there are concerns that CORD is currently mired in divisive politics. &ldquo;This is not the time to wrangle. The coalition should be working closely to ensure that they dislodge Jubilee from power,&rdquo; he said. READ MORE CORD is more united than ever, Raila declares Omar announces deadline for opposition flag bearer ODM begins process to lock out defectors The ANC leader had earlier in the week received defectors led by Lamu Governor Issa Timamy and his deputy Eric Mugo and members of the National Assembly John Bunyasi (Nambale), Ayub Savula (Lugari), Yusuf Chanzu (Vihiga), Alfred Agoi (Sabatia) and Alfred Sambu (Webuye East) at the party&rsquo;s headquarters. The leaders are among the three governors and 10 MPs who wrote to Registrar of political Parties Lucy Ndung&rsquo;u before the end of the 30 days transfer period for elected leaders who did not wish to join the Jubilee Party even though their former parties had folded to merge with JP. While defecting, Timamy told residents at Mwana Arafa Hotel early in the week that he wants to belong to a party which respects its members. &ldquo;Mudavadi has been my my political leader and mentor since I joined politics. I want to continue working with him. I have left Jubilee to those who were bragging that they own it. I am really glad to have left,&rdquo; said Timamy. Yesterday, Mudavadi urged CORD to remain united if dislodging Jubilee from power is its ultimate goal. &ldquo;I am ready talk with my brothers at CORD. We need to have a united front to dislodge the Jubilee coalition. We cannot afford to give them another term to continue plundering our economy. I will begin talks with Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula,&rdquo; he said. Fears of an imminent fallout in CORD have been stoked by statements from the principals who in their different meetings have given the impression that they could be pulling apart. But Mudavadi insisted that it was time for CORD to speak in one voice if it is to win the confidence of Kenyans ahead the polls. He reiterated that he was not interested in a political deal with the Jubilee Party and dismissed Deputy President William Ruto&rsquo;s call for him to be his (Ruto&rsquo;s) running mate in 2022. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;