NEW YORK: US President Barack Obama has called for free and fair elections in Kenya next year. In a telephone conversation with President Uhuru Kenyatta on Monday, Mr Obama also backed Kenya&#39;s humanitarian assistance to refugees. President Obama reiterated the importance of peaceful, free and fair elections, according to a readout of the call posted on the White House website. It added that the American President expressed his &quot;desire to continue our strong partnership with Kenya on a range of issues, including the effort to deliver a lasting defeat to Al Shabaab in Somalia&quot;. The statement explained that the two leaders discussed issues of mutual importance including the strong US-Kenya bilateral relationship. &quot;President Kenyatta offered his strong support for the objectives of the President&#39;s Refugee Summit and the US-Africa Business Forum, and Obama reiterated the international community&#39;s appreciation for the efforts of long-term refugee hosting countries and in particular, Kenya&#39;s forthcoming commitments to improve, among other things, refugee access to education in Kenya,&quot; it said. READ MORE New police unit's priorities all wrong Jubilee Party will unite the country Heightened political rhetoric bad for Kenya The leaders also discussed the importance of securing the entry into force of the Paris Agreement on climate change this year, it concluded. President Kenyatta cancelled his trip to the UN General Assembly and State House explained that the decision was informed by the need to stay at home to attend to regional crises including the conflict in South Sudan. Deputy President William Ruto is leading Kenya&#39;s delegation to the Assembly. Mr Ruto has held talks with UN Secretary General Ban Ki Moon. In one of the meetings, the DP defended Kenya&#39;s decision to close down Dadaab Refugee Camp and criticised world powers for not meeting their obligations to provide financial assistance to ease the burden on Kenya. Yesterday, President Obama implored world leaders to be empathetic in addressing the refugee and migrant crisis. In his last address at the 71st United Nations General Assembly meeting in New York, Obama pressed world leaders to seek solutions to the issue he said had become a global threat. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;