More than 40 MPs, governors and senators who ditched their parties, a record 19 of them from ODM, were yesterday officially received into the Jubilee Party. Deputy President William Ruto, who read out the defectors&rsquo; names, described the launch of Jubilee Party as historic, saying it is not easy to bring 12 parties and their members together to form one big political outfit. &ldquo;What you are witnessing today is history. You are witnessing the laying of a foundation the leadership for Kenya, from today going forward,&rdquo; he told thousands of delegates and supporters at Kasarani. &ldquo;Things are not going to be same again in our political circles,&rdquo; said the DP. Among the defectors Mr Ruto paraded before the delegates were two Governors Salim Mvurya (Kwale) and Ukur Yatani (Marsabit) and several MPs from the Raila Odinga led ODM. ODM MPs were introduced alongside 20 others who ditched Wiper Democratic Movement and Ford Kenya, Kanu and Narc Kenya. READ MORE Parties must invest heavily in fair nominations Raila: Jubilee cash is suspect but we are not scared of them Mombasa in festive mood ahead of today&rsquo;s ODM party bash The MPs who ditched ODM include James Rege (Karachuonyo), Ahmed Abass (Ijara), Gideon Mung&rsquo;aro (Kilifi North) Zainab Chidzunga (Kilifi County), Mustafa Iddi (Kilifi South), Masoud Mwahima (Likoni), Mpuri Apuri (Tigania East) and Joseph Lekuton (Laisamis). Others from the Orange party were John Waluke (Sirisia), Stephen Kariuki (Mathare) Protus Akuja (Loima), Isaac Mwaura (nominated), Nasra Ibrahim Ibren (Marsabit County), Cyprian Iringo (Igembe Central), Peter Shehe (Ganze) and Samuel Arama (Nakuru Towm). Other legislators included Ford Kenya Deputy Party leader Khatib Mwashetani (Lunga Lunga), Nicholas Ngikor (Turkana East), Wiper&rsquo;s Kisoi Munyao (Mbooni), Joe Mutambo (Mwingi Central), John Munuve (Mwingi Central), Richard Makenga (Kaiti) and Regina Ndambuki (Kilome) and Chama cha Uzalendo&rsquo;s Vincent Musyoka (Mwala) and Vincent Munyaka( Machakos Town). Kanu&rsquo;s Samuel Moroto (Kapenguria), Moses Cheboi (Kuresoi South), Eric Keter( Belgut), Hellen Sambili (Mogotio) and Governor Simon Kachapin (West Pokot) and Narc Kenya&rsquo;s Rachel Nyamai (Kitui South). Senator Mutahi Kagwe (Nyeri) and Muungano&rsquo;s Francis Mwangangi (Yatta) were also present. Independent MPs John Serut (Mt Elgon), Wesly Korir (Cherangany) and Kinoti Gatobu (Buuri) were also received to JP.