A House team has recommended the investigation of several former senior government officials for irregular loss of public funds in state corporations. This follows recommendations by the National Assembly&rsquo;s Public Investments Committee (PIC) chaired by Adan Keynan (Eldas), which interrogated audit reports prepared by the Auditor General from 2001-2014. The committee has asked the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) to investigate former officials mentioned in its 400-page report within one month after the report is adopted by the House. The report, which was debated and adopted two weeks ago, focuses on irregular procurement, irregular payment of allowances, and unapproved expenditures among other issues in 64 state corporations. It comes at a time when the proposed parastatal reforms spearheaded by President Uhuru Kenyatta have stalled. The committee wants EACC to conclude investigations into a case in which Sh150 million was allegedly deposited by the then management of Pyrethrum Board of Kenya (PBK) in the collapse of Euro Bank in 2002. On October 17, 2001, the board placed a short-term deposit of Sh150 million at an interest rate of 9 per cent per annum for 90 days with Euro Bank, which was subsequently placed under liquidation by the Central Bank of Kenya on February 22, 2002. The committee recommended investigations into the then managing director with a view to holding him accountable for the loss of the money, which was deposited without the board&rsquo;s approval. In another recommendation, a former PBK managing director, Pauline Sego, should be held accountable for over-expenditure of Sh38 million. &nbsp;IRREGULAR PURCHASE Others in PBK the committee wants investigated are former managing director Joshua Kiptoon for irregular purchase of two second-hand diesel generators at Sh25 million. The team also revealed that the Kenya Medical Laboratory Technicians and Technologists Board lost Sh8.1 million from 2003-2005 in irregular allowances paid to board members. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;