NAIROBI: The recent conference hosted by the Commission for University Education (CUE) was overshadowed by TICAD VI. CUE&rsquo;s meeting was convened to deliberate on higher education in Kenya, which has reached a turning point in terms of student numbers, financing and, more fundamentally, the returns on investment. The conference&rsquo;s main theme, &lsquo;Advancing Africa&rsquo;s Development through Science, Technology and Innovation&rsquo;, was timely. At a pre-conference, whose theme was &lsquo;Status of higher education in Kenya&rsquo;, a number of issues confronting the country were highlighted. Among them was the numbers. Data from the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics shows that in the last 10 years, the number of university students has grown to about 500,000. One of Mwai Kibaki&rsquo;s final acts as president was to charter and recharter more universities. There could be another around of this. The thinking is that we should open more opportunities in higher education, which would have a spillover effect on the economy. My concern is that the expansion is lopsided. While arguments have been advanced for humanities; science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) are attracting fewer students. READ MORE Uhuru upbeat as Japanese premier jets in for Tokyo summit State to scrap some university courses That is why the CUE theme was timely. Africa needs STEM to develop. Through STEM, we solve societal problems, while also making money. Most innovations are built on STEM. With most of our students studying humanities, we are spawning fewer innovations. No wonder comedians are the heroes in this country. I will not stop asking why Science Congress winners in high school never go to State House, while drama and music festival winners dine with the President &ndash; and despite our Deputy President being a scientist. He should flaunt his scientific credentials more often. The big issues It is, therefore, surprising that as CUE was hosting its conference, the Government was announcing it is sponsoring 10,000 students to study in private universities. It would have made lots of economic sense to add a rider to this sponsorship: they must study STEM. The power of STEM has not been fully appreciated in Africa. Maybe because leaders rarely have a STEM background. How many African presidents studied STEM? How many of our MPs, senators and MCAs studied STEM? And how many principals in high school are scientists? Can the Teachers Service Commission ensure that either the principal or deputy is a scientist? Even our Constitution kept away from STEM. The word advocate appears 14 times in this law, but scientist and mathematics do not feature. Engineering appears once. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;