The unveiling of Jubilee Party (JP) last week has left no doubt that Bomet County will yet again be a key battle ground in the 2017 elections. The county is home to rebel politicians in Rift Valley, a tag it has held since the days of former Cabinet Minister Kipkalya Kones. Governor Isaac Ruto&rsquo;s opposition to the Jubilee merger is the latest rebellion. Ruto is one, and the most vocal, of the many politicians from the county and the larger Kipsigis community -- which inhabits Bomet and has a sizeable presence in Nakuru -- who have chosen to rebel against Jubilee and senior community politicians. But unlike earlier leaders who chose to decamp to opposition parties after falling out with the ruling regime, Ruto has a different path and formed his own political vehicle. The governor was a close ally of the late Kones, and like the late politician, speaks his mind on issues affecting the Kipsigis community. He has grown immensely popular by taking on the Jubilee administration for neglecting the region. When Kones fell out with former President Moi, he mounted a rebellion against his regime in Bomet, drawing the political attention of the country. The region was then a Kanu zone and persistently voted out anyone trying to oppose it. READ MORE Contest under other parties or face lock out, JP aspirants told MCAs dismiss Jubilee Party interim officials over face of Kenya Showdown looms over ODM, Jubilee city rallies As political fate would have it, Kones lost terribly in the 2002 elections to current Kanu Secretary General Nick Salat in the contest for the Bomet parliamentary seat. Kones, who had held on to the seat for nearly 15 years, had tried to lead a mass exit from the then ruling party to Ford People. A similar scenario is playing out against the fiery Bomet governor, who has fallen out with Deputy President William Ruto. Political observers have however termed his decision to form a new party to run against Jubilee as &lsquo;tragic&rsquo;. Public spats with the Deputy President have been viewed as disrespectful and has become a political talking point. &ldquo;It will be a race between those loyal to Jubilee and Governor Ruto who has defied the Deputy President,&rdquo; Ivor Korir a political analyst said. In a recent visit to Bomet, the DP vowed to ensure that he be voted out. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;