VOI: Opposition leader Raila Odinga has dismissed the newly-formed Jubilee Party, saying it will offer nothing new to Kenyans. The CORD leader lashed out at the Jubilee administration accusing it of perpetrating corruption and tribalism in the country. Addressing a rally in Taveta town yesterday, Raila said time has come for Kenyans to rise up and vote out the Jubilee administration in next year&#39;s polls. &quot;Jubilee Party is like day and night. It has played monkey business by taking small parties and forming JP. The formation of the new party is like a monkey moving from one tree to another,&quot; The CORD leader told his jubilant supporters. &quot;JP has failed to announce party positions and you cannot liken it to ODM which is a national party with countrywide grassroots support. It (Jubilee) lacks democracy,&quot; noted Raila. He told his supporters that ODM was prepared for elections and will conduct free and fair nominations in all elective positions to avert fallout. READ MORE Jubilee Party will unite the country Jubilee Party supporters join ODM CORD cracks whip on 24 defectors, sets stage for mini polls &quot;We do not want to see our party members fighting or causing divisions in the party. Those who will win nominations fairly will be given party tickets and the losers should support the winners,&quot; said Raila. Earlier, Raila held a rally in Loitokitok in Kajiado County. He was accompanied by among others Governor John Mruttu, MPs Thomas Mwadeghu (Wundanyi), Andrew Mwadime (Mwatate), Jones Mlolwa (Voi), Mathew Lempurkel (Laikipia North) and Kisumu Woman Representative Rose Nyamunga. Others included Deputy Governor Mary Kibuka, County Assembly Deputy Speaker Chrispus Tondoo and several members of the County Assembly. &quot;If Jubilee knows how to steal votes we will also do the same. No matter what, Raila will be at State House next year,&quot; said Lempurkel. Ms Nyamunga said Jubilee administration was using money to lure ODM supporters. &quot;Let them continue eating the meat, and when they bring money eat it,&quot; she told the rally. Mwadeghu, Mlolwa and Mwadime said Raila was the only leader capable of leading this country that has been run down by the Government. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;