&nbsp; The political rivalry between Governor Alfred Mutua and Senator Johnstone Muthama resurfaced Thursday when the three clashed in front of hundreds of mourners in Kalama. The differences pitting the Machakos governor on one hand, and his deputy and senator on the other, have pushed political temperatures in the region a notch higher. Things spilled over when the three met at the funeral of Dr Mutua&#39;s uncle, John Mbithi. Mutua&#39;s estranged deputy, Bernard Kiala, kicked off the hostilities when he accused his boss of presiding over a &quot;rotten government&quot;. Mr Kiala, who has vowed to run against Mutua in the forthcoming General Election, accused him of allegedly diverting millions of shillings meant for the county&#39;s social welfare kitty to &quot;ghost projects&quot;. More drama unfolded when Mutua declined to address the mourners after Kiala - as dictated by protocol - welcomed him to read his speech. The master of ceremony snatched the microphone from Kiala as Mutua&#39;s security detail stood guard. Kiala was forced to take his seat when one of Mutua&#39;s cousins invited Senator Muthama to address the gathering, an invitation Muthama declined. READ MORE Governor Alfred Mutua launches movement Six murdered guards to be buried today Mutua unfazed as rivals plot his ouster When he finally rose to address mourners the governor accused Muthama and Kiala of taking advantage of funerals to advance their political agenda. &quot;Politicians should have respect for departed souls. I did not come here to talk politics but to bid my beloved uncle farewell,&quot; Mutua charged. He poured cold water on his deputy&#39;s allegations, accusing him of seeking political sympathy from the electorate. Mutua then invited Muthama to address the gathering, but for the second time, the senator declined. It took the intervention of County Woman representative Susan Musyoka to convince the senator to address the crowd amid rising tension. And when he rose to speak, Muthama launched a scathing attack on Mutua who he accused of failing to prioritise the needs of Machakos residents. Throughout the ceremony, the two leaders, who sat far apart and even avoided eye contact, did not speak to each other. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;