After holding a series of rallies at the Coast, the Orange Democratic Movement will move to&nbsp;&nbsp; Deputy President William Ruto&rsquo;s stronghold of North Rift where its leaders will address local supporters. Party bigwigs led by Raila Odinga will on October 1 attend a church ceremony and thereafter hold a rally at the 64 Stadium in Eldoret, the seat of Uasin Gishu County. This will be the first major political event in the region after the United Republican Party, which commanded the biggest following in North Rift, was dissolved. &ldquo;The date has been confirmed and preparations are now ongoing for the October 1 tour of Uasin Gishu County by our party leader Raila,&rdquo; said ODM devolution secretary Kipkorir Menjo. &ldquo;Raila will also visit Segero Seventh Day Adventist (SDA) Church in Ziwa in Soy constituency before a major rally at the 64 Stadium in Eldoret town,&rdquo; said Mr Menjo. Speaking in Eldoret, Menjo said local party officials had been holding meetings to develop briefs on the issues that will be addressed by party leaders, particularly problems faced by poor farmers and low prices for agricultural produce. READ MORE Wamalwa campaigns for Jubilee Party as Mudavadi woos Rift Valley Welcome home, Raila tells Funyula MP Paul Otuoma How CORD defectors could force repeat of 1966 mass by-elections &ldquo;After attending the church function at SDA Segero, Raila will join other ODM leaders, including Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, in Eldoret town for a road show before the main rally. We are still fixing the programme for the day,&rdquo; he added. ODM will also want to benefit from the fallout they expect will arise as a result of the Jubilee merger, said Menjo. David Songok, the Uasin Gishu County ODM branch chairman, and branch&nbsp; secretary Charles Tanui, said local supporters were looking forward to Raila&rsquo;s visit. &ldquo;Our party supporters are eagerly waiting for this rally. After Eldoret, the ODM party leader will attend a church ceremony at Lelboinet in Elgeyo Marakwet County,&rdquo; said Mr Songok However, Nandi Senator Stephen Sang and Chesumei MP Elijah Lagat said the Jubilee merger had strengthened the party and its leaders do not anticipate a fallout.