Turkey and Russia signed an agreement on Monday for the construction of a major undersea gas pipeline and vowed to seek common ground on the war in Syria, accelerating a normalization in ties nearly a year after Turkey shot down a Russian warplane. Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan hosted Russia&#39;s Vladimir Putin at an Ottoman-era villa in Istanbul for talks which touched on energy deals, trade and tourism ties, defense and the conflict in Syria, where the two leaders back opposing sides. &quot;Today has been a full day with President Putin of discussing Russia-Turkish relations ... I have full confidence that the normalization of Turkish-Russian ties will continue at a fast pace,&quot; Erdogan told a joint news conference. The warming relations between NATO member Turkey and Russia comes as both countries are dealing with troubled economies and strained ties with the West. Putin said Moscow had decided to lift a ban on some food products from Turkey, imposed after the Turks shot down a Russian fighter jet near the Syrian border last November, and that both leaders had agreed to work toward the full-scale normalization of bilateral ties. They signed a deal on the TurkStream undersea gas pipeline, which will allow Moscow to strengthen its position in the European gas market and cut energy supplies via Ukraine, the main route for Russian energy into Europe. READ MORE German police detain two in Chemnitz manhunt, find explosives Next U.S. president, Putin's fourth, inherits sinking Russia ties Trump backs off praise of Russia's Putin after debate The plan for TurkStream emerged after Russia dropped plans to build the South Stream pipeline to Bulgaria due to opposition from the European Union, which is trying to reduce its dependence on Russian gas. Erdogan also said plans for a Russian-built nuclear power plant in Turkey would be accelerated. Time lost on the Akkuyu project because of strained relations would be made up, he said. In 2013, Russia&#39;s state nuclear corporation Rosatom won a $20 billion contract to build four reactors in what was to become Turkey&#39;s first nuclear plant, but construction was halted after the downing of the Russian jet. DEEP DIVISIONS ON SYRIA Putin received Erdogan in a Tsarist-era palace outside his home city of St Petersburg in August, when the two leaders, both powerful figures ill-disposed to dissent, announced plans for an acceleration in trade and energy ties. But progress on Syria, over which they remain deeply divided, has been more problematic. Erdogan described the topic as &quot;very sensitive&quot;, but said he had discussed Turkey&#39;s military operations in Syria with Putin on Monday. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;