The office where Justice David Maraga began his career bears the hallmarks of a hardworking advocate. Room 21 on the second floor of Pelbar House along Kenyatta Avenue in Nakuru is meticulously planned and still stocked with law books in the shelves. At the reception hang portraits of former chief justices Kitili Mwendwa, Sir John Ainley, Cecil Miller and Sir Alfred Simson. This is where the man colleagues in the legal profession have described as humble, hardworking and incorruptible ran a law firm for 20 years before he was appointed a High Court judge in 2003. Lawyer Isaac Wamaasa not only honed his skills under Mr Maraga but also inherited his office as well as books and furniture when the Chief Justice appointee joined the bench. &quot;When Maraga was appointed to the High Court, he literally left everything here. This huge office desk was his work station,&quot; says Mr Wamaasa. READ MORE A sample of Justice Maraga&rsquo;s court rulings JSC fights off bid to cap sitting allowances JSC declares Justice David Maraga as Chief Justice nominee He says as a lawyer, Maraga worked hard and rarely went out for lunch. He began his legal practice in Nakuru in the 1970s, when he opened a firm that handled conveyance, litigation, criminal and civil cases. In 1988, he joined forces with Pravin Bowry and formed Bowry, Maraga and Company Advocates. The firm split up in 1999 as Bowry moved to Nairobi. Maraga reverted to his old firm, Maraga and Company Advocates. &quot;I still don&#39;t believe the news. You can&#39;t imagine he came from this humble office,&quot; Wamaasa says. &quot;Justice Maraga&#39;s appointment will bring public confidence to the Judiciary as he is incorruptible and a team player. He is respected by colleagues and advocates alike.&quot; Lawyer David Mongeri, who worked under Justice Maraga for five years, describes him as an advocate and judge who stands for justice, and an honest person who served his clients diligently. &quot;He closed his law firm following his appointment to the bench to avoid any possible conflict of interest. This was a remarkable move,&quot; he says. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;