At least 5,000 Kenyans have travelled to Mecca for the Hajj pilgrimage amid new security measures by Saudi Arabia authorities.&nbsp; Muslims from across the world are expected to mark Eid al-Adha celebrations on Monday. The Kenyans left in batches ahead of the climax of the pilgrimage that will be marked by various ceremonies and prayers between today and Thursday next week. The government of Saudi Arabia said it has taken the necessary measures to forestall insecurity and tragedies that were witnessed last year. At least 2.5 Muslim pilgrims from across the world are expected in Mecca. Saudi Embassy in Nairobi Charge D&#39;Affaires Abdullah Masoud Al Qahtani said movements of pilgrims will be managed better this year to prevent possible stampedes. &quot;The Saudi government has mobilised enormous human, technological and financial resources to enhance safety of pilgrims. We are hoping for an incident-free Hajj this year God willing,&quot; he said. READ MORE Bomb kills father and daughter at school in Thailand's troubled south 5000 Kenyans Travel to Mecca for Annual Pilgrimage Amid Enhanced Security Security personnel Mr Qahtani said the number of security personnel on the ground has been increased to 200,000. Pilgrims will be required to wear an electronic safety device on their wrists, which can be tracked by satellites, as part of ongoing efforts to enhance management of their movements. &quot;The devices also contain personal and medical information of a pilgrim to ease identification and service provision. The information can be accessed remotely by Saudi government and security agencies via smart phones,&quot; Qahtani said. Nearly, 2,000 security cameras have also been installed and linked to control rooms manned by specialised security forces. The Hajj is the biggest annual gathering of people in the world, and managing the movement of millions of people within an area the size of Nairobi&#39;s Central Business District poses significant challenges. Last year, at least 700 people, including eight Kenyans, died in a stampede, the deadliest in 25 years. Another 900 were injured. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;