NAIROBI: A decision to block&nbsp;retired President Mwai Kibaki from&nbsp;challenging the 1997 presidential election results returned to haunt&nbsp;Justice Msagha Mbogholi. While being interviewed for the&nbsp;Chief Justice post, Mr Mbogholi said he acted according to existing law. &quot;I was not alone when we made the decision, but I believe the provisions we relied on have now changed. I don&#39;t think it was the right decision, it is something one regrets and with the current scenario, I would have allowed him to pursue the case,&quot; he said. Mbogholi and Judges Emmanuel O&#39;Kubasu and Moijo ole Keiwua had dismissed Mr Kibaki&#39;s petition at the preliminary stage on grounds that he did not properly serve the application. He at the same time gave hope to former judges unfairly sacked by the Justice Aaron Ringera-led radical surgery in 2003 and the Judges and Magistrate Vetting Board, saying some of his colleagues were unfairly dismissed. Mbogholi&nbsp;himself was a victim of the Justice Ringera purge, which found him unfit to continue serving. Instead of resigning, Mbogholi decided to face a tribunal which cleared and reinstated him after four years in the cold. READ MORE Visram: I will dismantle graft cartels in courts if I become Kenya's next CJ Kenya Judiciary to interview all applicants for CJ and DCJ Mwai Kibaki in 'high spirits' after surgery &quot;What I went through was not right, some of my colleagues who faced similar decision should be given a second chance to canvas their grievances. The Supreme Court should have not locked them out but there is light at the end of the tunnel for those unfairly sacked if I become the CJ,&quot; he said. Mbogholi said he wants to follow in the footsteps of retired Chief Justice Willy Mutunga in implementing the Judiciary transformation agenda. But he tickled the Judicial Service Commission when he said he is not on social media or active in engaging the public through social media as much as the man he wants to replace. He also denied being pushed by certain people for the position of CJ, saying he was aware of cartels within the Judiciary but he was not part of them. On the dispute over judges&#39; retirement age, Mbogholi said he will not extend his years beyond the 70 years limit. &quot;I believe capping the CJ&#39;s tenure to 10 years was deliberate to avoid complacency. Five years is enough for me to make a change that will be remembered when I retire,&quot; the judge said. He added that his focus will be to retrain judicial officers to inspire public confidence, reduce case backlogs, motivate judicial staff, promote judicial independence and dialogue with other arms of government to avoid conflict of interest. On what makes him a suitable candidate for CJ, Mbogholi said he is currently the longest serving judge having been appointed a judge in 1987, adding that the experience he has makes him the best candidate. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;