Up until last week, the Northern Collector Tunnel (NCT) Phase 1 project that is expected to supply 140 million litres of water to Nairobi was just any other project implemented in the country side with little if any national attention. But on Monday, former Prime Minister Raila Odinga triggered debate on the Sh23.5billion multi agency funded project that is now threatening to generate controversy. But according to the 4th Nairobi Northern Collector Water System Phase 1 Brief For Proposed Ground Breaking, the flood water diversion structures to be constructed on rivers Maragua, Gikikie and Irati, are designed to divert 3, 1 and 2m cumecs of flood water respectively to the collector tunnel and not the entire amount. Athi Water Services Board CEO Malaquen Milgo assured that the impact on the Tana River is between 0.9 to 2 per cent and quite negligible. In the beginning, the project will target rivers Maragua, Irati and Gikigie. It will then be extended to tap water from rivers South Mathioya, Hembe, Githugi and North Mathioya all these are tributaries of the Tana River in the third and fourth phases. READ MORE Consider facts on the water project, Wamalwa now tells critics We weren't consulted on Sh6.8b tunnel, says Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi Clear the air over Murang&rsquo;a water collector project The project first conceived in 1998 with a target year for implementation being 2010 did not take off because of lack of funds according to Eng Milgo. He said the current water deficit in Nairobi City is 125 million per day and in line with the National Development Plan, Vision 2030,and NCT I seeks to improve its water capacity in Nairobi City and the surrounding areas. Milgo said prior to the implementation of the NCT I there were a number of studies that were carried out on the Northern Collector System, which have involved detailed data collection and analysis to assess its viability. &ldquo;The initial studies are documented in Feasibility Reports of 1998, carried out by M/S Howard Humphreys and Partners Ltd under the Third Nairobi Water Supply Project. The 1998 report investigated to greater detail the technical and economic viability of the Northern Collector Scheme as a source of water after Ndakaini Dam. He said the report recommended implementation of the NCT Phase 1 project by the year 2010. Due to funding challenges the project was not implemented as planned. &ldquo;In 2012, Athi Water Services Board through Egis/MIBP JV carried out the Feasibility Study and Master Plan for Developing New Water Sources for Nairobi and Satellite Towns. This study validated the 1998 report and further recommended implementation of the Northern Collector Tunnel project,&rdquo; Milgo explained. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;