Kiosk owners could be forced to pay tax as the Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) moves to ensure that all businesses are compliant. In a public notice yesterday, KRA announced it would conduct door-to-door inspections to ensure tax compliance. This is the most drastic step ever considering all businesses, including those in the informal sector such as small-scale farmers, are targeted. They will be expected to pay taxes based on their turnover, not profits. Other small businesses targeted are rental properties, which have remained elusive to the taxman. The agency said it had sent officials to inspect all businesses in all towns. &ldquo;KRA wishes to notify the general public that it is carrying out on spot verification of the location of properties and business premises through the block management approach in all towns,&rdquo; the agency said. READ MORE Trump's tax writeoff shows his 'genius' at business, advisers say KRA moves to tighten grip in fight against illicit alcohol KRA should consult widely on the new excise system &ldquo;Those visited during the exercise, particularly property owners and traders, are by this notice required to accord KRA staff the necessary support and provide information as may be called upon.&rdquo; However, it was not immediately clear what action the agency would take against those found not to be tax compliant. KRA has been falling behind its revenue collection targets for years because Kenyan businesses mainly operate informally. Only three years ago were Government suppliers told to ensure that they were tax complaint. This meant even major businesses, including those selling goods and services to the state, may have been pocketing tax-free profits. The latest move also follows a policy directive National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich issued four months ago, during the unveiling of the National Budget approximations. Mr Rotich said everyone should pay taxes irrespective of the sector or size of business. &ldquo;We must widen the tax net so that everyone eligible to pay tax, including those in the informal sector, does so. In this respect, I have asked KRA to explore ways of taxing the informal sector and to redouble their efforts to net tax evaders,&rdquo; said Rotich. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;