Since May this year, Michael Kariuki and his wife Beth Wanjiru have not had a moment&#39;s peace after their 20-year-old son James Muriithi sneaked to Mandera County with the intention of working as a quarry miner. &quot;I listen to the radio everyday, praying that all is well in Mandera County. I can&#39;t sleep well nor can I be at peace as long as he is so far away trying to make a living,&quot; Wanjiru admitted. According to the anxious parents, this is the third time their son has made the decision to travel to Mandera to eke out a living. &quot;He was only 17 when he went to Mandera the first time in 2014, and when 36 quarry workers were killed there it was the worst experience for us as a family,&quot; Kariuki explained. The attacks on quarry workers, which took place on December 2, 2014, will forever be etched in the minds of Kenyans, more so the residents of Gatei, Gathathi, Kiganjo, Chieni, Chaka and several other villages in Chaka and Kiganjo who lost 18 young men. That night Al Shabaab militants butchered 36 young men who were were sleeping in the quarry after a hard day&#39;s work. READ MORE Tobiko directs the arrest of four officers for murder and indecent act charges Kakamega man commits suicide over chicken proceeds 'Special' bull to die for Ntimama Better pastures However, two years down the line, the young men from Chaka, Nyeri, who survived the ordeal, have returned to the place where their colleagues were killed after life at home turned unbearable. Over 10 men are now working in Mandera as they feel dissatisfied with the poor pay they they get in the quarries back home. The fact that each home in Chieni village in Kieni Constituency has a young man who has gone to seek better pastures in the Mandera quarries gives the Kariukis hope that their son is safe, surrounded by friends. &quot;We are not the only family who spend our days uncertain if we will receive a call informing of an attack. We pray that they are safe because as a family we cannot ward off the threats our children face,&quot; Wanjiru said. Kariuki admitted that if he had known his son was going to Mandera he would have persuaded him against the decision. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 4 Next &raquo;