Uncontrolled grazing in the Tsavo National Park has sparked concern among wildlife conservationists. The activists said the activity has led to environmental degradation, which has been been blamed for the persistent human-wildlife conflict in the county. Taita Taveta Tourism and Natural Resources Executive Alexander Mwangeka yesterday said there were more than 50,000 cattle illegally grazing in the park. He cited the worst hit as Tsavo West National Park. Speaking at a wildlife players&#39; meeting in Voi town, Mr Mwangeka said illegal grazing was adversely affecting tourism activities and revenue collection, and must stop. The executive told the meeting that the livestock belong to powerful individuals and senior national government officials. READ MORE Italian tourist trampled to death by elephant in Tsavo park Siaya residents live in fear as hippos wreak havoc Proposal to construct SGR through Nairobi National Park rejected &quot;The Tsavo ecosystem has been turned into a ranch. Tourists have been persistently complaining of seeing more livestock than wildlife and that they do not get value for their money. The rate at which the park is being degraded is scaring away tourists and investors,&quot; noted Mwangeka. The meeting was attended by among others senior Government and Kenya Wildlife Service personnel, Tsavo Conservation Area acting assistant director Luka Narisha, Voi Deputy County Commissioner Joseph Lewa and Kaloleni MCA Ahmed Omar. &quot;We cannot sit back and watch as Tsavo continues to suffer at the hands of corrupt individuals. The Government needs to intervene and save the fragile ecosystem that harbours a variety of flora and fauna,&quot; said Mwangeka. He added: &quot;The problem is that the livestock grazing in the park are from outside.&quot; He said locals found near the ecosystem were subjected to harassment and prosecution for trespass and poaching, while the illegal grazers were left scot-free to continue with their illegal activities. Early this year, the county leadership closed the main gate to the KWS Tsavo conservation area assistant director Robert Obrien&#39;s offices to protest against the illegal grazing and persistent human-wildlife conflict. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;