EMBU: A Pentecostal church pastor has supported calls for clergymen to undergo theological training before being allowed to serve in church. Rev Isaac Nyaga of Evangelist Miracle Church International said such measures would help avoid infiltration by false clerics into the work of God. He said evangelical pastors in Embu had formed a caucus that strictly monitored their peers&rsquo; behaviours to ensure there were no wayward amongst them. Speaking during the ordination of 16 clergymen, he said they had resolved any pastor found engaging in adultery, would be named and shamed. &quot;If a pastor is found to have done something wrong, he or she is to be named and shamed. They should carry their own cross. We particularly abhor pastors who engage in immorality like marrying multiple wives,&quot; he admonished. READ MORE Relief for clerics in gay row as court orders ACK to reinstate them Big win for Muslim students as court allows them to wear hijab Church members allege plot to destroy god's grave During the ordination, Ms Margaret Nkirote was appointed an Overseer, one of the highest posts in the church that has branches in various parts of the country. Rev Nyaga at the same time rooted for the election of more women in political and religious offices, saying the move would help boost their representation. He said women had made huge strides in all spheres of life and deserved to be in elective posts. Rev Nyaga said it was wrong for women with great competence to keep playing second fiddle yet they could offer quality leadership. He said many nations around the world were now embracing women leaders and it was time that the country followed suit by ensuring favourable atmosphere for women to contest seats. &quot;I have seen women being secluded even in government appointments yet many are qualified. You cannot go far without women in various leadership positions. Many women are well educated and gifted. This is their time to shine,&quot; he said. Rev Nyaga also called for calm during the campaign period and advised the electorate to ensure only clean people were elected. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;