The U.S. Republican Party on Sunday confronted its biggest crisis in more than 40 years when its presidential nominee, Donald Trump, faced a storm over sexually aggressive comments he made about women in a newly uncovered 2005 video. Only a month before the Nov. 8 election and on a day when Trump was due to debate Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton, Trump took to social media to squelch any speculation that he would leave the race. &quot;Tremendous support (except for some Republican leadership&quot;). Thank you,&quot; Trump wrote on Twitter. Then in a last-minute surprise in St. Louis, host city for the town-hall debate, Trump called journalists into a hotel room to witness a meeting he held with four women who revived accusations of past sexual misdeeds by Clinton&#39;s husband, former President Bill Clinton. The party turmoil recalled past party crises, including the Watergate scandal that led to Republican President Richard Nixon&#39;s resignation in 1974. A businessman-turned-politician previously best known to Americans as a reality TV show host, Trump, 70, faced his latest crisis when on Friday the 2005 video emerged in which he was heard talking on an open microphone about groping women and trying to seduce a married woman. The video was taped only months after Trump married his third wife, Melania. READ MORE Why Republicans are withdrawing support for Donald Trump Trump vows to jail Hillary Clinton if he wins White House Trump vows to stay in race after calls for him to quit over lewd remarks The controversy pitched Trump, 70, into the biggest crisis of his 16-month-old campaign and deepened fissures between him and establishment Republicans. On Sunday, he struck a defiant tone in the face of calls for him to abandon the race. A source close to the campaign of Trump&#39;s vice presidential running mate, Mike Pence, dismissed talk among some political analysts the Indiana governor might bolt the ticket in the uproar over Trump&#39;s comments. &quot;Absolutely not,&quot; the source told Reuters. At a Democratic campaign event in Chicago, President Barack Obama weighed in on the controversy, saying Trump had been degrading not only to women, but to minorities, immigrants, people of other faiths, and the disabled. Obama said that &quot;tells you he is insecure.&quot; &quot;He pumps himself up by putting other people down,&quot; Obama said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;