Damascus:&nbsp;Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Saturday he remained &quot;more positive than negative&quot; over a shaky ceasefire in Syria, but a senior rebel in Aleppo warned the truce &quot;will not hold out&quot; as some fighting persisted and aid failed to come through. The ceasefire is the result of an agreement between Russia, which backs Syrian President Bashar al-Assad with air power, and the United States, which supports some rebel groups, and has cooled fighting since coming into effect last Monday. But in comments delivered in Kyrgyzstan on Saturday, Putin cast doubt over Washington&#39;s commitment to the deal, saying it was &quot;deviating&quot; from its own call for openness, and had been unable to split moderate from &quot;semi-criminal&quot; rebels. However the two agreed on Friday to extend the ceasefire and Putin said that Russia would abide by its own commitments and still believed that securing a Syrian ceasefire was a common goal for both Washington and Moscow. Insurgents say they only reluctantly accepted the initial deal, which they believe is skewed against them, because it could relieve the dire humanitarian situation in besieged areas they control, and blamed Russia for undermining the truce. &quot;The truce, as we have warned, and we told the (U.S.) State Department - will not hold out,&quot; the rebel official said, pointing to the continued presence of a U.N. aid convoy at the Turkish border awaiting permission to travel to Aleppo. READ MORE Israeli aircraft attack Syrian army position, Israel denies any shot down Blasts kill dozens in Syria as U.S.-Russia truce talks make little progress &quot;It is not possible for the party (Russia) that wages war against a people to strive to achieve a truce, as it is also not possible for it to be a sponsor of this agreement while it bombs night and day, while on the other side, the other party - America - has the role of spectator,&quot; he said. Moscow has itself accused rebels of breaking the truce and said Washington needs to do more to make them abide by its terms, including separating from the jihadist Jabhat Fateh al-Sham, which only broke formal allegiance to al Qaeda in July. The five-year civil war has killed hundreds of thousands and displaced half the country&#39;s original population, drawing in global and regional powers, causing an international refugee crisis and inspiring jihadist attacks around the world. OVERNIGHT SHELLING Both sides have accused the other of being responsible for aid deliveries being stuck far from Aleppo, where army and rebel forces were supposed to retire from the Castello Road which leads into besieged, insurgent-held eastern districts. Russia on Friday said the Syrian army had initially withdrawn but returned to its positions after being fired on by rebels, who in turn say they saw no sign of government forces ever leaving their positions. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;