In 2013, Kenya ushered in the fourth President of the republic and with him came First Lady Margaret Kenyatta, a most charming definition of grace, finesse and elegance. Margaret is the daughter of former Kenya Railways director Njuguna Gakuo. A mother of three, she has carved a niche in her own right gaining favourable approval ratings while retaining her privacy in the fishbowl of State House. As a former Kianda School student and Bachelor of Education graduate of Kenyatta University; the charisma of her wisdom-inclined demeanour and elegance has earned her instant respect wherever she has been to. A champion and committed role model of maternal health and the rights of children, Margaret Kenyatta through the &ldquo;Beyond Zero&rdquo; campaign has seen millions of shillings raised to equip health facilities across the country. Counties have received fully kitted mobile trucks which comprise three consultation rooms, a laboratory and a pharmacy. These are used in the counties for emergency services, distribution of drugs and nets as well as in the provision of basic health services. READ MORE First Lady Margaret Kenyatta sets pace for Africa Sh2.2 billion Beyond Zero hospital coming soon Inside First Lady&rsquo;s Beyond Zero Mobile clinic Coupled with this initiative, First Lady Margaret Kenyatta is also at the forefront of yet another leading role to renovate and equip health facilities in the counties dubbed Adopt-a-Ward. The &ldquo;Hands off Our Elephants&rdquo; campaign that highlights the plight of the African elephant on the brink of extinction, is another initiative whose human face is Mrs Kenyatta. With a unique platform to influence action, she continues to steward advocacy and interventions in response to the poaching menace that our country has faced for many years. Our First Lady joins others like herself in forming a critical force in advancing various courses around the world. She is polished, eloquent and refined therefore deserves more than just being a part of Kenya&rsquo;s history. In the United Kingdom, former Prime Minister Tony Blair&rsquo;s wife Cherie has been empowering women entrepreneurs globally through mentorship and capacity building programmes in collaboration with private and public sector partners. US First Lady Michelle Obama is using her platform to advocate on behalf of the 62 million girls worldwide without access to quality education. Dr Christine Kaseba-Sata, former First Lady of Zambia and Mrs Salma Kikwete, former First Lady of Tanzania, have been instrumental forces in the implementation of effective interventions, like the work of Pink Ribbon Red Ribbon, to combat women&rsquo;s cancers among underserved populations. Former US First Lady Laura Bush has been committed to empowering women leaders and promoting access to education, healthcare, and economic opportunity both during her time in the White House and through the Women&rsquo;s Initiative at the George W. Bush Institute. First Lady of Afghanistan Mrs Rula Ghani has championed for the rights and well-being of women and girls and strengthening the rule of law in her country. The list goes on and on and on. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;