CORD co-principal Kalonzo Musyoka&lsquo;s Wiper Democratic Movement will not budge on its December 25 deadline for the coalition to pick a joint presidential candidate, Secretary General Hassan Omar told The Standard on Sunday writer NZAU MUSAU. In a candid interview on the state of the coalition, intrigues surrounding the Mombasa County governor race and role of youthful leaders in politics, Omar bared it all. He says his party cannot wait any further than December 25, demands a more structured process to pick a joint candidate and dismisses the euphoric rise of Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho as fleeting. In the interview, he vowed to vanquish Joho and accused him of attempting to short-circuit the demands for accountability in Mombasa. Full interview below: Q: There is a lot of confusion in CORD as we go to 2017. As the Wiper SG, what is the true status of the coalition and what is Wiper&rsquo;s actual place in the coalition? A: As per our declaration in Tononoka, the coalition is strong. CORD is potentially the only political grouping that can remove Jubilee from power. Definitely we need to choose our flagbearer. It was anybody&rsquo;s guess that this was going to be a very emotive area of discussion. Q: You have been in this situation before. What lessons have you learnt as a party which you want addressed this time round? READ MORE CORD is more united than ever, Raila declares We will never join Jubilee, say Kalonzo, Wetang'ula Our tours in opposition areas bearing fruit, claims DP William Ruto A: I am a good student of my chairman in terms of coalition building. We have been in this situation several times. So first, we want a structured process. It&rsquo;s not a question of &ldquo;let&rsquo;s go to Kisumu today and Mombasa tomorrow, that we make big pronouncements&rdquo; without strategy. Our considered view is that there must be a framework and a strategy, and based on those experiences that we have learnt that the candidate be agreed on in good time to stem any potential fallout. Q: While the confusion abounds in CORD, things look a bit steady in Jubilee with a clear ticket of &ldquo;UhuRuto&rdquo;. When will CORD name its ticket? A: The thing is; we have given the December 25 deadline. Jubilee is in a much easier position. It could never have been expected that Uhuru was not going to seek re-election. They enjoy this unique position while we have to navigate a lot of interests to come up with the best formula for victory. Q: Is the December 25 deadline a Wiper or CORD position? A: It is a Wiper position and like every other party, we must state that our candidate is best placed based on various scenarios that are available with respect to what is the most practical way of beating Jubilee. Q: Do you foresee the possibility of your party going it alone or playing in a different coalition? GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 4 Next &raquo;