The governments scrapping of a 20 per cent excise tax on locally assembled vehicles in a bid to attract investors, appears to have paid dividends. Volkswagen (VW) Group, the&nbsp; world&#39;s largest car manufacturer is set to start production in Kenya by the end of the year. This follows the signing of an agreement between representatives of the VW Group and President Uhuru Kenyatta on Wednesday. Under the agreement, the motor vehicle manufacturer will start assembly at the Thika based Kenya Vehicle Manufacturers (KVM) plant. The Volkswagen Group operated in the country in the 1960s and the 1970s. It closed shop in 1977. The return of the VW group lessens the gloom after Sameer East Africa announced it would close shop due to unfair competition. Other companies like Eveready had already scaled down their operations considerably, resulting in job losses as manufacturers sought for places that offered a higher return on investment. VW employs 610,076 employees worldwide producing nearly 42,000 vehicles. It is uplifting that soon, Kenya will share the pie. While the re-entry of VW will definitely boost our economy and offer employment opportunities to locals, it also goes a long way to underscore what favourable tax regimes can do for a country by way of attracting investors. VW&#39;s comeback serves as a shot in the arm for Kenya&rsquo;s Vision 2030. It will further boost visible efforts by the government to growing a solid industrial base with viable investment in infrastructural development, the flagship of which is the Standard Gauge Railway line. Locally assembled vehicles will not only have the advantage of meeting and conforming to local standards; they will be more affordable in comparison to imports from Japan and other Asian countries on which import duty has to be paid. READ MORE Volkswagen to produce first car in Kenya by December Volkswagen targets East Africa with Kenya car assembly plant The country&rsquo;s economy stands to benefit from an injection of foreign exchange once full production commences and the country is able to export some units to neighbouring countries.