&nbsp; A bodyguard alleged to have robbed Tharaka Nithi Deputy Governor (DG) Eliud Mate of Sh3.5 million surrendered to the police in Meru Thursday. Josphat Kibiegon denied having violently robbed Prof Mate on Wednesday and wrote a statement implicating the deputy governor in various questionable practices. The suspect said he did not snatch the bag containing the money from Mate on arrival at the latter&#39;s Kinoru Estate home in Meru town. He, however, explained that they had a confrontation over his unpaid allowances. Mate, his driver Charles Gitonga, the alleged land buyer Dominic Murimi and his private guard also wrote statements Thursday. North Imenti Police Division Commander Sam Koskey said Kibiegon walked into the Meru Police Station at 6am Thursday and handed over his official Beretta pistol before he was locked in the cells. READ MORE Deputy Governor robbed of Sh3.5 million by bodyguard &quot;The suspect claims that he whipped out his pistol to protect himself from members of the public after a confrontation with the deputy governor over the unpaid allowances,&quot; he said. Koskey and Meru County Police commander Samson Kinne said they were preparing to take the AP constable to court today to answer to robbery with violence charges. &quot;As of now, he has accompanied detectives to the place he says he spent the night for further investigations. As of now, no money has been recovered,&quot; said Koskey. In his statement to the police, Mate said he had sold the land to Murimi, a Chuka businessman, and the deal had been concluded on Tuesday evening at Tunyai market and title deeds exchanged. Neither he nor Murimi named the land reference number in their statements. After the bodyguard surrendered, Mate issued a press statement asking observers to stop speculation on the incident. Mate&#39;s phones have remained switched off since the incident and his statement Thursday was issued by Tharaka Nithi County Director of Communications, Douglas Kaunda. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;