Over 1,000 representatives of people without State recognition have embarked on a mission to demand citizenship from the Government. The representatives are trekking to Nairobi to seek audience with President Uhuru Kenyatta to discuss their citizenship status. Several people in the county including the Makonde, who trace their roots to Mozambique; Wapemba, originally from Pemba in the Indian Ocean in Tanzania, and Warundi of Burundi have lived in the county in impoverished conditions as descendants of migrant workers who came to Kenya during the colonial era. Some of them were fleeing civil war in their countries of origin in the late 1950s and early 1960s. Most lack any papers to confirm their ancestry, and any other claim to Kenyan citizenship. About four years ago, they were declared Stateless, after Mozambique attempted to take back her alleged citizens. Some of the Makonde registered to become citizens through the South Africa&rsquo;s consulate in Mombasa last year, and even participated in that country&rsquo;s elections, which halted Kenya&rsquo;s pledge to grant them nationality. READ MORE Trump believes Obama was born in the United States KENYANS TURN AGAINST KENYANS: Level ground for all to deliver for new home countries The majority of Makonde, Pemba and Warundi born in Kenya reject any plans to take them to these foreign nations although they have no land and other rights of citizenship. Estimates indicate the stateless people in Kwale could be about 50,000, with half of them being in Mombasa, Kilifi and Taita Taveta. A process to recognise these people and grant them citizenship started early last year when they were registered in a census. But since then, no more information has been forthcoming on the process. The communities&rsquo; leaders met yesterday at Makongeni village to plan their trip, which has been delayed by national government officials in the region. DETERMINED SOULS Thomas Nguli of the Makonde community said nothing will stop them from meeting the President as he recounted on what they go through as Stateless people on a daily basis. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;