Police are investigating death threat claims by a key suspect in the Sh791 million National Youth Service (NYS) scandal. Businessman Ben Gethi yesterday told police that he was being &quot;targeted for elimination&quot; over confidential information regarding the mega scam involving powerful individuals. Mr Gethi reported the matter at Parklands Police Station in Nairobi after an unidentified motorbike rider dropped a leaflet alluding to his sensational appearance before the National Assembly&#39;s Public Accounts Committee last week. In the statement to the police, the businessman claimed that a motorcyclist left a death threat note addressed to him with his driver. The note related to statements he made at the PAC meeting. The complaint is dated October 10 and was entered as OB 2 at the police station. Police said they were investigating the claims as well as the threats contained in the note. READ MORE NYS scam suspect Ben Gethi informs police of received death threats How Kenya Airways ignored its auditors and lost billions in flawed jet fuel purchases Top detective rules out NYS hacking claim in loss of Sh791m The threatening message in a combination of Kiswahili and English read: &quot;Ben come siku ya Tuesday, tutakua tukikuaangalia kwa makini zaidi. Kile ambacho unajua utapeana kwa hao watu huko bunge ambacho hakikuhusu na kina husu wengine wacha kisifike kwa hao watu. If hiyo information itafikia hao watu itabidi kitu kifanywe na hata kama unafikiri watakuprotect tunaua corner zote ambazo tutapata wapendwa wako. We will do what we have to do. Asante.&quot; (Ben, come Tuesday we will be watching you closely, whatever you have which you will give to those people in Parliament, which does not concern you but concerns others, let it not reach them. If the information reaches them, then something will have to be done and if you think they will protect you, we know where to find your loved ones... Thank you). At the PAC hearing, Gethi claimed former Devolution Cabinet Secretary Anne Waiguru was a beneficiary of the stolen NYS cash. Gethi alleged that to conceal any evidence, the former CS worked with Director of Criminal Investigations Ndegwa Muhoro to &quot;fabricate&quot; documents that implicated him.