KAPENGURI: KANU has stepped up efforts to maintain political supremacy in West Pokot County after some elected leaders ditched it recently for the newly formed Jubilee Party and its continued forays in the region. A section of leaders in the region including area governor Simon Kachapin and Kapenguria MP Samuel Moroto shifted camp to President Uhuru Kenyatta-led Jubilee Party. Saturday, area senator John Lonyangapuo challenged the electorates in the region to shun calls by Deputy President William Ruto asking them to join Jubilee. He said KANU was and will still remain the most popular party in the county for decades to come even as he criticized the founders of Jubilee Party for &#39;killing democracy&#39;. Prof Lonyangapuo told the electorates to prepare for by-elections citing that the defectors are likely to be whipped out for contravening the political parties Act. He further criticized the DP for portraying himself as the only one who could lead the Pokot community to State House for their plights to be addressed. READ MORE Kiraitu raises the red fl ag over chaos in Jubilee turfs Administrators step in to avert chaos as Jubilee aspirants insult each other Defectors to cost taxpayers Sh1 billion in case of by-elections &quot;This region will remain a KANU zone and no amount of deceit or intimidation will sway the community into joining Jubilee, not even buying out the local leadership will achieve that,&quot; he said. The legislator who was accompanied by Bomet governor Isaac Ruto said this at Kaptabuk in Pokot South Sub County during a funds drive to aid in the purchase of a school bus for the institution. Lonyangapuo who has also declared interest for the gubernatorial position in West Pokot County asked the communities to keep off from leaders who have self-interests and instead support those who propagate common agendas. Governor Ruto took the opportunity to popularize his Chama Cha Mashinani (CCM) party even as he also criticized Jubilee for killing democracy. He asked the community to be firm and to turn a deaf ear to those who hoped to sway them into Jubilee citing that it has no interest for the common man. &quot;You should not accept to be deceived with some of those leaders purporting to be community spokesmen yet they only work their individual interests,&quot; he said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;