A bomb expert prepares to check three bodies of women who attacked the Central Police Station. (Photo: Gideon Maundu/Standard) Three women Sunday made an audacious raid on Central Police Station in Mombasa in a suspected terror-related attack. Details of their identities began to emerge Sunday evening as security officials pondered the implication of the attack on the facility. Reports now indicate one of the attackers has been identified as Fatma Omar, a 23-year--old former student at a day girls&#39; school in Mombasa. Fatma, who was shot in the forehead and severely burnt in the fire that followed what is believed to be a petrol-bomb attack, did the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education exams in 2013. Further reports show they were dropped at the entrance of the station before staging a false theft report as a cover-up to detonating the explosives. READ MORE Militant suspected in Bangladesh cafe attack killed himself, police say Three assailants killed in Mombasa police station attack It&rsquo;s a dark day in Mombasa, says Joho after police station attack Sunday evening, reports revealed that three women said to be related to the deceased had been detained for interrogation amid claims that police had been on high alert since Saturday night following intelligence reports about an impending attack. The other women were said to be 32 and 33 years old, according to records seen by The Standard and sources who believe the attackers were aided by people still at large and who drove them into the police station. Mombasa was still in shock by Sunday evening, 10 hours after the raid following reports that two accomplices had escaped as carnage spread at the station that was once hit by a suicide attacker and militant rioters in the 1990s and 2000s. The motive of the raid is not clear and the women have not been linked to any terrorist groups. But sources told The Standard that the slain women most likely came to rescue a suspect or suspects detained from Mombasa&#39;s Old Town on Friday. And Sunday afternoon, some of the suspects in police cells were evacuated to unknown places, apparently for interrogation. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 4 Next &raquo;