President Uhuru Kenyatta has urged Jubilee Party aspirants for the Nairobi gubernatorial seat to work together to deliver the seat. Speaking yesterday when he made an impromptu tour of the county, President Kenyatta said Jubilee leaders should agree to support whoever the residents will pick as their candidate for the governor&#39;s position during the nomination. &quot;Whether they pick Margaret Wanjiru, Mike Sonko, Johnson Sakaja or any other candidate for the Jubilee ticket, we will have to respect the people&#39;s decision,&quot; President Kenyatta said. The President asked the aspirants to unite and focus on winning the position in line with the party&#39;s spirit of unity and co-operation. The Head of State emphasised the need for leaders to shun abusive politics and hatred, saying they should always work to serve the interests of the electorate. &quot;Let us put the interests of the electorate ahead of our own and stop unnecessary wrangles that would divide us,&quot; he said when he addressed residents of Mlango Kubwa in Mathare constituency who turned out in large numbers to greet him. READ MORE Heightened political rhetoric bad for Kenya Jubilee Party will unite the country Jubilee will easily win 2017 polls, leaders say The President also took a swipe at the Opposition, saying they should keep off Jubilee affairs. &quot;We know what we want for our party. The Opposition should not interfere with our party affairs,&quot; the President said. He said Jubilee will remain focused on its development agenda of providing Kenyans with efficient and effective services. President Kenyatta was accompanied by Mathare MP Stephen Kariuki who recently decamped from ODM to join the Jubilee Party, Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko, Nairobi Woman Representative Rachel Shebesh, Starehe MP Maina Kamanda and Johnson Sakaja. The President first visited Kenyatta market where he shared lunch of&nbsp;nyama choma&nbsp;with Jubilee leaders, and addressed traders. He later headed to Muthurwa market where he also addressed traders, and concluded his impromptu tour by addressing the public at Mlango Kubwa. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;