USA: Two women accused Donald Trump of inappropriate touching in a story published on Wednesday by the New York Times, claims his spokesman called &quot;fiction&quot; but which may further damage the Republican presidential nominee&#39;s chances of winning the White House just four weeks before the Nov. 8 election. The report was followed by a stream of similar allegations from other women, putting more pressure on the Trump campaign as it lags in national opinion polls and struggles to contain a crisis caused by the candidate&#39;s comments about groping women without their consent which surfaced on Friday. One of the women, Jessica Leeds, appeared on camera on the New York Times&#39; website to recount how Trump grabbed her breasts and tried to put his hand up her skirt on a flight to New York in or around 1980. The second woman, Rachel Crooks, described how Trump &quot;kissed me directly on the mouth&quot; in 2005 outside the elevator in Trump Tower in Manhattan, where she was a receptionist at a real estate firm. Trump&#39;s campaign denied there was any truth to the New York Times accounts. It made public a letter to the newspaper from Marc Kasowitz, a lawyer representing Trump, demanding it retract the story, calling it &quot;libelous,&quot; and threatening legal action if it did not comply. &quot;This entire article is fiction, and for the New York Times to launch a completely false, coordinated character assassination against Mr. Trump on a topic like this is dangerous,&quot; the Trump campaign&#39;s senior communications adviser Jason Miller said in a statement. READ MORE Takeaway from Trump-Clinton clash Obama says Trump's comments on women disqualifying Trump trails Clinton by 8 points after tape scandal Reuters could not independently verify the incidents. Leeds and Crooks did not immediately respond to requests for comment from Reuters. &quot;We stand by the story, which falls clearly into the realm of public service journalism,&quot; a New York Times spokeswoman said. The report comes just two days after a Reuters/Ipsos opinion poll showed one in five Republicans thought Trump&#39;s comments about groping women disqualified him from the presidency, and put him 8 points behind Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton among likely voters. MORE ACCOUNTS SURFACE Within hours, several other media outlets published similar reports. People magazine published a detailed first-person account from one of its reporters, Natasha Stoynoff. (bit.ly/2dTm90D) Stoynoff said Trump pinned her against a wall at his Florida estate in 2005 and kissed her as she struggled to get away. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;