Murang&rsquo;a Senator Kembi Gitura has differed with the local leadership over the Sh6.8 billion Northern Collector Water Tunnel, calling for its immediate suspension. In what is likely to create a wedge between him and the rest of the politicians who have dismissed concerns raised by Opposition Chief Raila Odinga, Gitura said the project was dangerous to the environment. The Senate Deputy Speaker, who has been abroad, released a statement, saying the findings of a technical committee appointed by the Murang&rsquo;a County Government should be respected. &ldquo;We are trustees not just for the people we represent today, but also for all future generations,&rdquo; he said. And as the issue continues to stir controversies, Kigumo MP Jamleck Kamau in whose constituency the project falls said a leaders&rsquo; forum to deliberate on the matter is set for Monday. Kamau said the Murang&rsquo;a community want an assurance that as the water is channeled to Nairobi, the locals will have enough for consumption and farming. READ MORE You will regret for ignoring Raila&rsquo;s remarks, Atwoli warns Jubilee Pressure piles on President Uhuru over project Raila Odinga urges Murang&rsquo;a leaders to face truth on water project Enough water He said the public has raised concerns that the project&rsquo;s negative effects be addressed and locals be supplied with enough water. &ldquo;I have requested the Ministry of Water and Irrigation to convene a forum, which will also be attended by the Murang&rsquo;a Council of Eminent Persons and we expect to get full information about the project. After the meeting, we shall go back to our people and explain to them,&rdquo; Kamau said. Although Murang&rsquo;a Governor Mwangi wa Iria has been dismissing the environmental concerns raised by Raila, the technical report points at disastrous consequences should the project proceed. According to Gitura, among the findings of the committee is that the tunnel will seriously affect the aquifers lying between rivers Irati, Gikigie and Maragua and Ndakaini Dam. &ldquo;This will have serious environmental and other effects on the said rivers and more so on the people living downstream and depend on the rivers,&rdquo; Gitura quotes the report as saying. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;