The thriving construction boom in real estate has earned Kisumu County praise in the latest World Bank&#39;s survey rankings on doing business in Western Kenya. And the county&rsquo;s administration is building on the reputation to shed off the anti-business tag associated with the town. Governor Jack Ranguma and Deputy Governor Ruth Odinga yesterday said Kisumu is currently on the path to economic resilience after the recent anti-IEBC protests that nearly disrupted the smooth and free flow of trade in its Central Business District. &ldquo;My main worry when I entered office was this perception that Kisumu is a violent and hostile place. I knew this kind of perception was bad for investment and the economy,&rdquo; said Ranguma. &ldquo;I am impressed that our concerted efforts to restore peace and security in Kisumu have paid off and the town is now ranked as Kenya&rsquo;s most investor friendly by the World Bank.&rdquo; E-CONSTRUCTION READ MORE 1,000 Kisumu youths get free artisan training Nyong&rsquo;o and Raila's sister give Ranguma sleepless nights ODM opens two branch offices in lakeside town The World Bank&rsquo;s 2016 survey reveals that in Kisumu, it takes the fastest time to obtain construction permit, unlike in Migori, Homa Bay and other counties. In Uasin Gishu, it takes less time to venture into a new business, the survey shows. Kisumu County has now introduced an E-construction permit, which has made it easy for investors to put up their structures. Ms Odinga lauded the move as the right step toward growth. The digitisation of construction permits has reduced the time taken for processing of the documents. Kisumu was ranked sixth in the issuance of permits the last time the survey was done in 2012. &ldquo;The new initiatives in Kenya are encouraging, but challenges remain,&rdquo; Augusto Lopez Claros, Director of global indicators at the World Bank, said in the report. &ldquo;The success of reforms hinges on better implementation, co-ordination across tiers of government and sustained capacity building to empower counties to make it easier to do business.&rdquo; The indicators - business licensing, property registration, construction permits and contract enforcing - are the parameters that the World Bank used to rank the counties. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;