&nbsp; Pressure Wednesday piled on Devolution Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri to step aside over claims of soliciting Sh20 million from an aid worker. Mr Kiunjuri denied the claims, saying they were imaginary since the international aid worker is unknown. &quot;I received information in writing from the Directorate of Immigration and Registrar of Persons that indicated Delphine Bram Christopher does not exist. Even the relevant officials are unable to trace any record of such a person,&quot; said the CS at a briefing. Step aside Ms Christopher&#39;s allegations angered the National Council of Non-Governmental Organisations, which piled pressure on Kiunjuri to step aside to pave way for investigations into bribery claims. READ MORE Kenya: Team picked to address drought in 12 counties Kiunjuri and Wamalwa run for cover as bees raid public meeting Kiunjuri and Wamalwa launch irrigation projects &quot;It is our firm position that the Devolution CS has engaged in abuse of office and should therefore step aside to allow for independent investigations by EACC,&quot; said the council&#39;s chairman Stephen Cheboi. However, three other NGOs supported the embattled CS and dismissed the affidavit sworn by Christopher as baseless and slanderous. The Society for International Development, Kenya Human Rights Commission and Trocaire International said they were not part of a delegation to Kiunjuri&#39;s office as claimed by Christopher. &quot;As representatives of civil society groups, we have never met Ms Christopher or been party to delegation that allegedly went to see the CS to plead with him to operationalise the PBO Act (Public Benefit Organizations Act 2013),&quot; said George Kegoro. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission confirmed having received the petition by Christopher and was studying the document to ascertain if the grounds are sufficient to commence investigations. And Kiunjuri Wednesday announced that he had dissolved the NGO Coordination Board. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;