NAIROBI: The transport authority has yet again suspended the licenses of five matatu saccos for violation of traffic regulations. National Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA) Director General Francis Meja cited the saccos as notorious and have not complied with the Public Service Vehicles (PSV). The saccos are Kisumu Ahero Mowouk, Daima Connection Ltd Sacco, Narok Line Services Sacco, Sema Stage Sacco and Mwingi Travellers Sacco. &quot;Following the continued speed violations involving the five PSV Saccos listed here and taking into consideration the records in our office, the Authority hereby invokes section 34 of the NTSA Act and suspends their operator licenses,&quot; said Meja in a statement. In the statement, Meja further said the traffic police department has been aware of the same: &quot;And are hereby informed to impound any vehicles belonging to the above PSV Saccos found operating contrary to suspension.&quot; Since the year started NTSA has suspended licenses for about eight saccos for either causing accidents frequently or violations of different traffic regulations. READ MORE Police arrest matatu crew and impound 305 explosives at Kenya-Tanzania border Two killed as lorry hits motorbike in Taita Taveta County Matatu operators protest entry of transit buses on city routes Speed brought about by reckless driving is still a major cause of accidents with an average or 100 cases recorded on a daily basis. In March, the authority had suspended some three other saccos for after reports frequent accidents were reported involving them. These are Indimanje sacco, Tahir Sheikh Said Transporters Limited and Rengcom Communication Limited. Also in July, Transline Sacco had its license suspended for causing an accident along Narok Mahi Mahiu road causing the death of nine persons. According to the latest statistics from NTSA, from January to September 18 this year, some 10,163 persons have been involved in accidents compared to 2015 8, 248 under the same period. So far, 2, 174 persons have perished on road accidents majority being pedestrians 811 and passengers 543. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;