CORD leader Raila Odinga says the exit of electoral commissioners has given the Opposition fresh hopes of removing Jubilee from power. Raila said yesterday said the electoral agency had been a stumbling block to the fight for change in the country, adding that with a new neutral electoral team, change was now inevitable. &ldquo;We have sent the IEBC commissioners home. We will continue to ensure there is level playing ground. There will be no more dead voters. We are now sure of beating Jubilee in the next elections,&rdquo; said Raila, referring to the exit of the nine Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission commissioners led by Issack Hassan. PREPARE VOTERS Speaking at Kibigori in Muhoroni where he witnessed an elaborate ritual and peace-making ceremony between the Luo and their Nandi counterparts, Raila told local opposition leaders to ensure voters were well prepared in their areas as he handles Jubilee at the national level. &ldquo;I want you to concentrate down here. Let me deal with these people at the top. I know how to handle them. &ldquo;Ok ginyala malo kucha&rdquo; (I am smarter than them up there),&rdquo; said Raila. READ MORE Raila Odinga raises red flag on planned second Eurobond Jubilee Party could name interim officials this week Why 2017 is hard tackle for Jubilee The former Prime Minister described the peace-making ceremony as a milestone in the relations between Luos and Nandis which, he said, was getting to its lowest ebb due to cross-border stock thefts and boundary disputes. Sporadic clashes along the border, which is endowed with rich agricultural soil and expansive grazing fields, have left many people dead, houses destroyed, school programmes disrupted and hundreds of animals stolen. In the recent flare-up two months ago, 10 people were killed, three schools shut for two weeks and several houses torched. BOLD MOVE Kisumu Governor Jack Ranguma, local MPs Onyango K&rsquo;Oyoo, Fred Outa, Senator Anyang&rsquo; Nyong&rsquo;o and Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi attended yesterday&rsquo;s ceremony. Raila said he knew some would dismiss the ceremony but added that those who did not respect their cultures were doomed. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;