Political intolerance has reared its ugly head once again. There is no denying that the campaign period is with us and political opponents would do anything to gain advantage. Though campaigns have not been officially declared, the flurry of political activity across the country as parties and individuals try to popularise themselves tell a different story. Sadly, much of our campaign period is characterised by utter thuggery and violence. The ignominy of the post-2007 election in which over 1,000 Kenyans died seems to have escaped the memory of many. Yet it is too soon. A repeat should be avoided at all costs. Nyakach Member of Parliament Aduma Owuor&rsquo;s house and car were burnt last Saturday in what is suspected to be an act of political violence. Karachuonyo Member of Parliament James Rege is equally being subjected to intimidation for making a political choice that doesn&#39;t seem to go down well with of his constituency. And Monday this week, Gem Member of Parliament Jakoyo Midiwo and Nicholas Gumbo, the Member of Parliament for Rarieda came face to face with goons who attacked and stoned them in Siaya County. Such acts of aggression are unacceptable. Kenya is a democratic society that espouses the freedoms of association, choice, speech and movement as enshrined in the Constitution. Nothing can explain unleashing violence on others purely to intimidate them for their political choices. In a democracy, breaking an opponent&#39;s skull or taking their life is never the best way to express a political persuasion or resolve issues. It only serves to entrench a culture of impunity and intolerance that undermine democratic ideals.&nbsp; Always, ideology and a contest of ideas should inform our campaigns, and the public must be allowed to make their free choices without coercion or intimidation. Keeping the country peaceful should be everyone&rsquo;s concern. Moreover, enforcement authorities should come down hard on those who propagate violence. READ MORE Two Busia men to hang for killing their uncle at funeral Beware, season of deceit with us Raila&rsquo;s right hand man&rsquo;s narrow escape in Nyanza violence