The National Transport and Safety Authority has deregistered a sacco whose matatu was Sunday involved in an accident along Langata Road killing four people. The authority advised the public to avoid boarding these vehicles as they shall be impounded if found operating contrary to the Authority&rsquo;s directive. &ldquo;Following several violations of the National Transport and Safety (Public Service Regulations) 2014 by Ongata Line Company Limited and consequent meetings with the Company regarding the same, the Authority has hereby deregistered the Company as a Public Service Operator,&rdquo; said a statement from the authority. There had been complaints that NTSA was not taking action on the operators even after protests from some of the passengers on the route. The matatu crew had been accused of being reckless on the road. We could not get a comment from the sacco officials on the move by the regulator. NTSA is mandated to regulate operations of PSVs. Four people were killed and six others injured when one of the sacco&rsquo;s matatu veered off the road and overturned along Langata Road, Nairobi. READ MORE Preterm births to blame for child deaths, medics say Four killed, six injured in Langata Road crash Coalition raids kill 9 in central Yemen- medical sources, residents Of the injured, four had serious and life-threatening injuries, police said. The matatu was ferrying passengers from Ongata Rongai to the city centre when the accident happened near Langata police station at mid day. The driver of the matatu lost its control as he approached a small roundabout veering off the road as he allegedly avoided hitting another private car there. Police officers from the station, soldiers from the nearby Langata Baracks and Kenya Wildlife Service rangers joined in evacuating those trapped in the vehicle that had landed on its left hand side. Nairobi Traffic Commandant Leonard Katana said they suspect the driver was speeding at the time of the accident. &ldquo;Some of the survivors have said the driver was speeding at the time of the accident. We are investigating before we take action,&rdquo; he said. Other survivors said the driver was reckless and was overtaking while moving at high speed. Lang&rsquo;ata Road has several black spots, where fatal accidents occur nearly every week, according to police records. Pedestrians at the scene of the accident where a Rongai matatu lost control and rolled on Lang&#39;ata road where 4 passengers lost their lives and 6 others were seriously injured. NTSA&nbsp;has deregistered a sacco whose matatu was Sunday involved in an accident along Langata Road killing four people. (PHOTO: DAVID GICHURU/ STANDARD) At least three buses from the Rongai route have overturned on the notorious road since June last year, raising concerns on their safety record. Passengers using the route usually complain their drivers are reckless and have been calling on NTSA to take action. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;