South Africa and Kenya are yet to strike a deal to ease visa restrictions affecting Kenyans. Visiting South African leader Jacob Zuma told a news conference after talks with President Uhuru Kenyatta at State House, Nairobi, yesterday that discussions on the matter &quot;is work in progress&quot;. &quot;There are issues that need to be considered and dwelt on so that when we reach the final understanding, there are no loopholes that will be used by wrong people, &quot; said Zuma with regard to the delays to operational visa exemptions for Kenyans. RED TAPE However, both presidents underscored the need to eliminate &#39;red tape&#39; in trade between the two nations. Zuma&#39;s visit to Kenya is the first State tour by a serving South African President. READ MORE Build on President Zuma's visit Kenya, South Africa to remove trade barriers, strengthen security ties South African President Zuma's rape accuser dies: family Kenyans&#39; high expectations that President Zuma was going to resolve this pending visa matter during the bilateral talks with host President Kenyatta at State House, Nairobi yesterday appeared to have been dashed. President Zuma, who is on a three-day State visit, held talks with President Kenyatta in his office before engaging in bilateral talks on areas of trade, security, education, energy and immigration, resulting in the signing of four memorandums of understanding (MoUs). &quot;We have realised that trade between the two countries is not at the same level. One has more trade moving in one direction and we need to find ways to balance this in a fair manner. There are specific areas we need to deal with that have problems,&quot; said Zuma. EXPOSE COUNTRY With over 60 South African companies in Kenya, Zuma expressed concerns that both countries were home to foreigners and therefore opening up the visas to everyone would expose its country. He said the matter was being tackled but remained non-committal on the timelines. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;