Deputy President William Ruto had to sorely plead and caress delegates to drop their protest over unpaid allowances before yesterday&#39;s Jubilee delegates conference could begin. When he arrived at the Kasarani Stadium, the venue of the NDC, at noon straight from Tanzania, Ruto found a situation thick in protest, jeers and utter confusion. Delegates outside and inside the gymnasium had refused to co-operate, defying speakers one after the other, as they insisted on being paid their cumulative allowances for the three-day political extravaganza. Before him, Senate Deputy Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen and former TNA Chairman Johnson Sakaja had tried to calm them to no avail. The delegates said they had been promised Sh10,000 each per day, totaling Sh30,000 for the three days. They complained that the figure had since been reduced to Sh3,000 a day, totaling to Sh9,000 for the three days. Still, by yesterday morning, many of them had not been paid a cent. &quot;Naskia hapa kuna mambo madogo madogo. Hayo yatatuliwa leo, leo... tunaelewana? (I am told there&#39;s a bit of a situation here. That will be sorted out today,&quot; Ruto assured the rebellious delegates, who when called to rise in prayer shouted &quot;pesa.&quot; READ MORE Raila: Jubilee cash is suspect but we are not scared of them Kanu allies demand Deputy President William Ruto's apology over 'insults' Jubilee nominations will be free and fair, says Ruto To further convince them, Ruto pressed on, &quot;I stand before you on behalf of the President of the Republic. And we aren&#39;t just a political party. We are government too.&quot; That passionate yet authoritative plea appeared to disarm the delegates, as they cheered in appreciation and concurrence. But the DP, known for his political rhetoric and eloquence, was not done with them yet. He praised them as heroes and heroines of the country, essentially caressing their egos, and now completely obliterating their resolve to rock the boat. &quot;These are very small issues my brothers and sisters. I want to pay tribute to you once again. Yesterday you performed an historic feat never seen before and which will remain for many years. Do not let small things stand in your way,&quot; Ruto said.