Two Coalition for Reforms and Democracy (CORD) leaders have said the delay in naming their presidential flag bearer for the next elections is a secret weapon against President Uhuru Kenyatta&#39;s Jubilee Party. Senators Johnstone Muthama (Machakos) and James Orengo (Siaya), the co-chairmen of CORD&#39;s management committee, yesterday said the coalition will smoothly pick its candidate to prove its unity ahead of the General Election. Muthama said they already know the flag bearer. &quot;As long as we remain in CORD with my brother here (Orengo), even if you cry, even if Jubilee prays seven times a day, we will not name our presidential candidate now. But we have him in our pockets,&quot; he said. &quot;We are not worried about the noises being made from all quarters, we are calm because we know what our strategy is and it remains a strange music to the outsiders,&quot; he said. Muthama said they were aware that JP was eagerly waiting and using all tactics to know who will face President Kenyatta in next year&#39;s polls. READ MORE Senators pile pressure on State to halt Murang'a water project Ford Kenya delegates deny endorsing Wetangula as flag bearer ODM, Ford-K field separate candidates in by-election &quot;We want to assure them that CORD&#39;s composition and foundation is so deeply rooted that only a few of us know how it was formed and how far it has come because we were played in 2013 and we have revised our strategies,&quot; he said. &quot;Know that we are intact and will win the next elections.&quot; The two leaders spoke in Kisumu on the sidelines of a Senate consultative meeting on devolution presided over by Speaker Ekwee Ethuro. Orengo said CORD has mechanisms to keep it intact until and after the General Election . &quot;Our coalition has survived the years since the last elections and this is a demonstration that we are intact and will solve any outstanding issues,&quot; he said. Orengo described the jostling for the flagbearer and leadership positions within CORD constituent parties as normal. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;