The tragic death of Alan Kurdi, the Syrian toddler who drowned off the Turkish coast a year ago, triggered a global outpouring of emotion and calls for a more effective and humane response to support refugees and migrants. More recently, the picture of another Syrian boy, Omran Daqneesh, sitting dazed in the back of an ambulance after an airstrike in Aleppo, drove home the immense cost of war and spurred a renewed call to end the misery. Responses to ease suffering, however, come after the fact, after communities have been uprooted, economic livelihoods destroyed and generations lost to violence. United Nations member states now stress the need to shift from a reactive to a preventive approach and focus on addressing root causes to prevent conflict, known as the &ldquo;sustaining peace agenda.&rdquo; Last year, governments committed to &ldquo;leave no one behind&rdquo; in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Drivers of conflict originate in the kinds of structural inequality that foster grievances and hopelessness. And once allowed to take hold, violent conflict is probably the biggest obstacle to the goals included in the 2030 Agenda to end poverty, foster prosperity, promote peaceful, just and inclusive societies and protect the planet. The complexity of conflicts based in inequality and exclusion means that sustaining peace requires a long-term and comprehensive approach, involving political, security, justice, development, and human rights actions in support of national efforts, with women and youth playing a central role. This demands constant focus and leadership by the international community. Landmark resolutions in the General Assembly and the Security Council called on the UN system to move away from silo approaches and act in unison to achieve sustainable peace. READ MORE Kenya calls for more funding to return Somali refugees from Dadaab 29 dead as migrant boat carrying 600 capsizes off Egypt CS Amina urges international community to support countries hosting refugees Our governments hope to provide momentum to the sustaining peace agenda by co-hosting a Pledging Conference for the UN Secretary General&rsquo;s Peace-building Fund on September 21. The event seeks $300 million for three years&rsquo; worth of projects. Considering that 80 per cent of humanitarian needs stem from violent conflicts, if we can prevent them, we would avoid tremendous suffering and save billions of dollars in intervention. The Peace-building Fund is positioned to support countries emerging from violent conflict or at risk of descending into violence. The fund can take financial and political risks that others are not able to assume. As such, it often lays the groundwork for much larger funds to come in. In Sri Lanka, the PBF funded the resettlement of 7,000 people on land they had lost during years of conflict. In Mali, the Fund initiated the process on cantonment camps to house combatants to hand over their weapons, spurring the World Bank to commit $26 million toward their reintegration into society after they demobilise. And in Somalia, the Fund is financing the establishment of local governments in places that have not enjoyed legitimate institutions in more than a generation. Recapitalising the Fund is a minor cost to pay for an effort that yields enormous dividends in terms of creating stable and just societies and the underpinnings of viable economies, not to mention prevent countless victims of violence. That is why we call on our fellow member states to invest in the Fund. Beyond financial commitment, the sustaining peace agenda also calls for co-operation in knowledge sharing and peace building through the exchange of expertise between countries facing similar adversities. Each actor has a role to play. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;