&nbsp; &nbsp; The state of the only pit latrine serving Lung&#39;a primary school in Ugenya, Siaya county in a picture taken on October 04,2016. Lack of sanitation amenities has pushed both boys and girls to share the torn iron sheet walled structure to releave self. (Photo: Denish Ochieng/ Standard) The collapse of pit latrines has condemned over 500 pupils of Ludodo Primary School in Likuyani Sub-county to stay at home. Its closure by the public health department last Tuesday highlights the deteriorating sanitary conditions in some public schools across the country. Thousands of pupils risk contracting diseases daily while in pursuit of their academic dream, with filthy toilets, dilapidated classrooms and lack of clean water posing the major risks. Developments in these schools have not kept up with the rising enrolment, which has put pressure on existing facilities. READ MORE Pupils study in the open after State orders school demolished Man dies after Nakuru hospital staff refuse to treat him &lsquo;for being dirty' School in Nakuru now closed for disposing waste on farm The introduction of universal primary education saw enrolment rise from 5.9 million pupils in 2002 to 7.2 million in 2003. The number currently stands at more than eight million pupils. The National School Health Strategy Implementation Plan 2011-2015 noted this trend had strained hygiene and sanitation facilities in schools. &ldquo;Water, sanitation and hygiene are critical towards creating a child-friendly environment in learning institutions. Improved water, sanitation and hygiene in learning institutions generate considerable benefits in terms of improved child health, attendance, performance, retention and transition,&rdquo; reads the report authored by then Ministry of Public Health and Sanitation. The impact of improved sanitary condition is demonstrated by the case of Mwangala Primary School in Likoni sub-county that was closed down in 2014 after its pit latrines collapsed during heavy rains. The number of pupils increased after it reopened with a modern sanitation block with clean water, thanks to the Mombasa County government and the government of Netherlands. It benefited from the Mombasa Public Primary Schools Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (Wash) project, which involves construction of sanitation blocks and water supply to promote hand wash after use of toilets. The local community now benefits from the school water. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 4 Next &raquo;