Buoyed by the recent increase in international conferences, the national government has said it will set up a Convention Bureau to come up with a policy to market Kenya as a meeting destination. Tourism Cabinet Secretary Najib Balala said on Wednesday that a task force would be formed to advise the Government on the formation of the bureau in 30 days. He also said a convention centre would be put up at the Mombasa Beach hotel, adding that the coastal county was ideal such an initiative. Addressing delegates at the inaugural State House Tourism Summit at State House Mombasa, the Mr Balala named hotelier Tasneem Damji as chairman of the task force. He did not, however, name other members. &ldquo;We have seen the growth in conference tourism in Kenya with clear indications of the huge potential this segment has in its overall contribution to our tourism sector hence the need to fully maximise its enormous potential,&rdquo; he said. The CS said the country has begun to see and enjoy benefits accruing from conference tourism, which will go a long way in enhancing Kenya&rsquo;s brand in the global arena. Records show that in 2014, international conferencing arrivals into Kenya stood at 103,891 delegates, representing 12 per cent of the total international tourist arrivals. In 2015, the arrivals from this market segment grew by 13 per cent to 117,630 delegates, representing 15.6 per cent of the total international tourist arrivals for that year. READ MORE High costs dampen Kenya's projected tourism growth Further growth in the conference market is expected this year and beyond. The most notable major meetings and conferences held in Nairobi recently were the 2015 Global Entrepreneurship Summit held in July 2015, the World Trade Organisation 10th Ministerial Conference in December 2015, and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development 14 in July 2016. Last week, Nairobi played host to the Sixth Tokyo Investment Conference on Africa Development (Ticad), the first time this conference is being held in Africa since its inception in 1993. Convention centre Ticad VI sought to identify common priorities for accelerating sustainable development, including the growing role of the private sector. The event was graced by 37 heads of State including prime ministers from Africa and Japan at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre, the largest convention centre in East and Central Africa. Balala said that part of a 10-acre parcel of land at Mombasa Beach Hotel would be allocated for the convention centre, which will occupy two acres. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;