Seven houses built on a disputed land at Kapkures village were torched at the weekend. And the incident has been linked to a dispute pitting the affected family against the public, which claims the land had been set aside for public utilities. According to 89-year-old Paulina Koda, more than 100 people raided her homestead and set the semi-permanent houses on fire. She said the group, which arrived a few minutes past 9pm on Saturday, ordered everyone out of the houses while another group slashed maize plants. Narrating the ordeal, the woman blamed the incident on a tussle over a 2.1-acre land she allegedly bought from a white settler in 1972. Claiming her supporting documents were among the items destroyed during the attack, she accused a section of residents for targeting to grab the prime property. READ MORE Brothers' appeal earns them date with hangman after murder of uncle in Busia Executive disowns list of trust land beneficiaries around Kenya Lawyer charged with swindling trader of Sh29 million in land deal Raging fire &ldquo;They stormed my bedroom and ordered me out. One of the attackers threw my grandchild through the window as my house was engulfed by raging fire,&rdquo; the woman claimed. The woman said she had the title to the prime property and asked those aggrieved to square it out through the justice system. &ldquo;I have the title and they should produce documents supporting their cause. It would be wrong to kick out my family non-procedurally,&rdquo; said Koda. The woman&rsquo;s eldest son, Joseph Kipangas said the case, which has lasted for 12 years in court, was ruled in their favour on July 14 this year, a claim that was strongly disputed by Oinobtich community water project chairman Daniel Yego. Yego said the attack could be a retaliation after the community borehole office was torched by unknown people on Saturday night. &ldquo;Hundreds of people who had turned up to put out the fire went on the rampage, destroying the family&rsquo;s property, something that should be condemned,&rsquo;&rsquo; said the chairman. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;