Even before the fanfare of the recent launch of Jubilee Party (JP) subsides, concern is growing over the party primaries. Anxiety is palpable among aspirants for elective positions as the party top echelons put on hold plans to announce national officials. Earlier, there were reports that incumbents or those eyeing elective seats would not be party officials. It was envisaged that a new line up of party officials would be unveiled during the grand party launch but this did not happen. Assurances that JP would seek services of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to conduct free and fair nominations have not allayed fears of the aspirants with some mulling over going for small party tickets. Party leader President Uhuru Kenyatta also promised those who lose out in nominations that they would benefit from government positions. READ MORE Nyachae role at JP fete leaves many guessing Raila: I&rsquo;ve no apologies over fiery exchange with President Uhuru Raila: Why Uhuru has refused to implement TJRC report years later In Nakuru and Nyeri, aspirants have formed caucuses over fears that elected leaders could influence the new party grassroots structure and nominations. In Central, the caucus led by Wambugu Nyamu is waiting to see if the new party officials will have leaders eyeing elective positions. &ldquo;The delay in naming JP officials is worrying because we fear political parties-fronted names. We should surmount this hurdle at the earliest opportunity so that all of us feel we have a level playing ground,&rdquo; he said. He said the President should unveil the list of officials so that party branches across the country can start recruiting members in readiness for the nominations. Simon Mithamo, a senatorial aspirant in Laikipia said picking party officials was a delicate affair that should ensure balance and representation across the country. Mr Mithamo said most of aspirants hope nominations will be conducted by IEBC. Rahab Mukami, a Nyeri Women Representative aspirant said: &ldquo;I&rsquo;m worried by the delay in naming of officials because we are getting information that there is infighting in JP headquarters. They promised to make the names of party officials public during the launch but they did not.&rdquo; More than 100 aspirants who converged at a Nakuru hotel recently said they were worried that sitting MPs might hijack the party and lock them out of nominations. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;