Politicians from Western Kenya have been warned against ignoring Central Organization of Trade Unions (COTU) Secretary General Francis Atwoli, who has been pushing for the region to unite behind one candidate in 2017. Atwoli has in the past one week been lobbying to unite all presidential hopefuls from the Luhya community. The trade unionist has announced that he will name the Presidential flag-bearer from the community early next year. Speaking to The Standard on Saturday, a Sirisia parliamentary aspirant Moses Nandalwe said leaders from the region who will ignore the direction given by Atwoli will do so at their own peril. Nandalwe who recently defected to ODM from Ford Kenya explained that Atwoli should be supported in his quest to unite the populous community as he has the interest of the Luhya nation at heart, since he harbours no political interests &quot;Since the demise of former Vice president Wamalwa Kijana, Luhya have lacked a dignified leader to unite them. Atwoli has stepped in now and he fits the bill. We should all listen to him and back him , &quot; said Nandalwe. &quot;The Cotu boss can decide to enjoy his wealth with his family at home and pretend that all is well with the Luhya community. We should respect him as he doing this for us and the future generation of the community&quot; he added. READ MORE Elephant tramples on a 67-year-old grandmother in West Pokot Uhuru says Jubilee merger will not kill democracy Chemelil Sugar enjoying good run in top league Mr &#39;Moneybags&#39; also warned those speculating that Atwoli has an Ideal candidate to stop citing that such propaganda might split the community further. &quot;Atwoli hasn&#39;t disclosed as to which candidate he want Luhyas to support. He wants us united first. The candidate will be named at Muliro Gardens in Kakamega in March next year. The rally will be attended by all Luhya leaders, Technocrats and thousands of Luhya voter,&quot; he added. There has been speculations that Atwoli is mobilizing support from the community for President Uhuru Kenyatta, who he is very close to and the Jubilee coalition. But while fielding questions from journalists yesterday at a Nairobi Hotel , Nandalwe refuted claims that Atwoli is doing bidding for President Kenyatta and Jubilee. &quot;Francis Atwoli is an international figure serving as the vice president of the International Labour Organization and the most respected leader in Kenya . He can&#39;t therefore stoop that low . His agenda is beneficial to the Luhya community not to an individual,&quot; explained Nandalwe, who is preparing to receive CORD leader Raila Odinga who is planning to tour Bungoma county. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;