One of the three women terrorists killed during an attack on a police station in Mombasa on Sunday was due to join university. This emerged as the identities of the women who launched the assault on Central Police Station in Mombasa were revealed amid fresh reports that they were partly motivated to avenge the February 2, 2014, raid on Musa Mosque in the town. They were killed by police officers in the botched raid after injuring two officers and starting a fire at the entrance of the police station. Reports now indicate that the three women, Ramla Abdulrahman Hussein, Maimuna Abdulrahman Hussein and Tasnim Yakub Abdullahi Farah, had a death wish and harboured a burning hatred for the Kenyan state. Their criminal actions were purportedly inspired by the storming by security forces of Musa Mosque in Majengo where two of them lived and studied, and where six worshippers and a policeman were killed. A local man, Hemed Salim Hemed, who was arrested in the February 2 raid, has been missing since but it is unclear whether the women had any ties to the mosque. READ MORE Come down hard on political thuggery in Kenya Court detains three women over Sunday's raid on Mombasa police station Muslim leaders disown three women terror attackers, declare them 'a disgrace to Islam' Ramla, according to new reports, was set to join a university in Mombasa this year. Initially, Maimuna had been wrongfully identified as Fatma Omar, one of the aliases she used in Internet communications locally and abroad. Fresh information now shows that Ramla sat her Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) exams at Qubaa Secondary School in Majengo, where Tasmin also completed school the same year. Maimuna studied at Qubaa and sat her exams in 2013 according to a Government report that does not state what grade she scored or what she did after high school. &quot;Ramla Abdulrahman Hussein studied at Iqra Academy and Qubaa Secondary School and completed [in] 2015. She, currently, wanted to join TUM university (sic),&quot; says the report that also says Maimuna Abdulrahman Hussein also &quot;studied at Iqra Academy before joining Abdallah Farsy Secondary School and completed in 2013.&quot; Mombasa&#39;s most militant preachers, including the late Sheikh Aboud Rogo, Sheikh Ibrahim Amur and activist Sheikh Abubakar Sharif alias Makaburi, either preached or worshipped at Musa Mosque. Most of the militants fighting the Kenyan military in Lamu have been traced to this mosque. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;