The shutting down of Kenya Airways&rsquo; cargo handling and processing unit, one of the most profitable arms of the company, may have contributed to the near financial ruin of the national carrier, The Standard on Sunday can exclusively reveal. The cargo unit, Kencargo International Limited (KK), was shut down in 2004 and the cargo handling business outsourced to a competitor whose list of original shareholders include the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party leader&nbsp;Raila&nbsp;Odinga, who also doubled as a KQ shareholder, a risk assessment report by audit firm Deloitte reveals. On March 3, 2004, Titus Naikuni, just months into his tenure as the Kenya Airways managing director, stood before the company&rsquo;s board and disclosed contents of an earlier meeting held in Amsterdam. The Amsterdam meeting on March 1 was between him and representatives of two other companies with interests in the aviation industry regarding the future of an in-house cargo division. A day later, on March 4, another board meeting was held. This time, the outcome was final. One of the national carrier&rsquo;s most profitable arms was to be wound up. Lucrative business Details of the winding up of this arm are contained in a confidential risk assessment report dated August 2016 which was conducted by Deloitte and presented to Ms Wanjiku Mugane, the chairperson of the Audit and Risk Committee of the national flyer. READ MORE ODM leader Raila Odinga tours William Ruto&rsquo;s backyard Raila tours William Ruto&rsquo;s backyard, says he&rsquo;s not to blame for ICC cases There are no divisions in CORD, Raila Odinga says The risk assessment report details how, through various errors of omission, commission and part naivet&eacute; by KQ&rsquo;s top management, the firm lost out on the lucrative air cargo business. &ldquo;The decision by KQ to wind up KK, a profitable subsidiary of KQ, was undertaken without the performance of any detailed independent due diligence procedures into the merits and demerits of winding up KK. It appears to have been rushed and not properly handled by the Board and management of KQ and resulted in the subsequent redundancies of key KQ cargo staff,&rdquo; the report reads. Before 2001, KQ ran its cargo operations through an in-house cargo division, as well as through two subsidiaries,&nbsp;namely&nbsp;Kenya Airfreight Handling Limited (KAHL) and African Cargo Handling Limited (ACHL). KAHL was a full-service provider of cargo warehousing services. ACHL, on the other hand, was a full-service provider of airline ground handling and airport related services. On January 31, 2001, KQ registered a subsidiary&nbsp;named&nbsp;Kencargo International Limited (KK) based in Nairobi. The shareholding of the subsidiary was as follows: KQ&nbsp;&mdash; with an equity interest of 60 per cent; Martinair Holland NV (MP)&nbsp;&mdash; with an equity interest of 20 per cent; and Koninklijke Luchtvaart Maatschappij (KLM)&nbsp;&mdash; with an equity interest of 20 per cent. A shareholders&rsquo; joint venture agreement was signed by KQ, KLM and MP on March 14, 2001 in terms of which it was resolved that KK would assume responsibility for all KQ cargo activities in Nairobi from April 1, 2001 and in the remainder of the KQ stations&nbsp;&mdash; London, Johannesburg, Lagos and Dubai&nbsp;&mdash; by May 1, 2001. The strategic plan was to develop a subsidiary serving up to 25 airports in Africa, the Middle East and Europe. Phase one of the plan was for KK to act as a cargo agent for KQ and phase two was to involve KK in acquiring charter freighters as part of the strategy to becoming a fully-fledged cargo carrier for KQ and as one of the market leaders in Africa. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;