Opposition leader Raila Odinga has opened a new warfront in the Coalition for Reforms and Democracy. In his cross-hairs are defectors to Jubilee. His fellow co-principals with sizeable shareholding that allows them to sit on the high-table during CORD&#39;s shareholders&#39; meeting &ndash; Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) and Moses Wetang&#39;ula (Ford-Kenya) &ndash; have decided those from their side that have technically joined Jubilee be left to grapple with their consciences and voters&#39; wrath. Now this is a war one cannot win. It is counter-productive because it diverts the time and energy from more urgent matters Mr Odinga should be focusing on if he hopes to beat Jubilee, which is growing bigger and more hard-headed every day. There are several reasons why chasing defectors around is like running (as PLO Lulumba puts it) after mosquitoes with a hammer. It is not just that the weapon is too big but chances of hitting one of the insects is nil! Whereas it is true the new laws bar defections, it should also be noted that unless one puts his or her defection in writing, in law it is almost impossible to prove. In any case, the defectors of these days have grown more tactful and cunning, hiding behind the cover of &quot;seeking development for the people&quot; and the freedom to associate with whoever one chooses. READ MORE Kenya's opposition must prove its mettle Top lawyer writes to Raila over defectors as party meets Raila Odinga intensifies presidential campaigns in Narok Yes, Mr Odinga and his lieutenants are justified to feel bitter over characters that rode on the wings of their parties to the National Assembly, Senate or governor&#39;s office. It is a sign of ingratitude, to say the least, to do this to Baba, they must be telling themselves. But then this is a moral rather than a legal question. The main complication is that you soon realise that it does not deter those inside from leaving or covertly working with &quot;enemy&quot; parties until the opportune time to jump ship. Both coalitions, in a season like this, should brace for more defections. The key motivation of defectors is to improve their chances of re-election. You can&#39;t fault them even if they make you feel like a jilted lover. More effort should instead be channelled to winning a better replacement. That is what lovers who have been dumped finally find solace in after their heartbreak. Also, consider that in an election cycle, at least 60 per cent of all elected leaders are shown the door. So you may be fighting with defectors, many of whom are diminishing political assets. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;