Leaders of dissolved Jubilee affiliate parties are unhappy after names of leaders of the new party emerged. A number of former officials of the defunct parties who sought anonymity expressed fears that they could be jobless for long. One of them said that during the negotiations of the merger, they agreed that the leadership of Jubilee Party will have the face of Kenya but that is yet to be fulfilled. The official explained that the top officials of the new political outfit apparently come from at least two communities contrary to their agreement when the merger was being negotiated. &quot;When you look at the five top leadership of the party is basically from only two communities. We also don&#39;t understand why the other positions have not been filled,&quot; said the former official. Jubilee merger co-chairman Noah Wekesa said he was not privy to any developments in picking interim officials to steer the new outfit. READ MORE Why Governor Joho should take ODM&rsquo;s leadership PNU is no more, says registrar President Uhuru, Opposition leader Raila political rivalry plays out during Ntimama's burial Dr Wekesa said officials of the merged outfits did not discuss the retention of officials in the new political party. &quot;We never discussed anything. But legally, JAP officials were supposed to hold until a new team is announced,&quot; said Wekesa. He remained upbeat that the Jubilee Party leader would name the new team as soon as possible to allow the party roar in action. &quot;I think anybody should not tell the party leader and deputy on what to do because they know what to do. I don&#39;t think that is the right way to go. I have a lot of respect for them and I hope they will do the right thing,&quot; he added. fight propaganda Western region had demanded it be given secretary general and treasurer positions to fight political propaganda that they had sold their parties to Jubilee. Former New Ford Kenya party leader Governor Ken Lusaka had said that his party was third in popularity in the merger and therefore deserved the powerful secretary general post. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;