Information, Communication and Technology and Courier Services minister Supa Mandiwanzira has urged local mobile operators to embrace innovation and create bigger globally competitive mobile applications. BY MUNESU NYAKUDYAAddressing several ICT innovators yesterday in Harare, Mandiwanzira said major mobile operators had approached his office on the challenges they were facing, notably a decrease in revenue due to the emergence of communication applications such as WhatsApp, Viber and Skype.Mandiwanzira said that this was a wake-up call and the country has to invest in its own innovators, so as to create different applications to boost revenue flows. The idea came about when the major operators in this country, came to my office telling me that they were facing a lot of challenges, he said. We spoke about a couple of ideas, thinking if they could switch off [applications], but we realised that it was very difficult to fight innovation. You can never switch off innovation because something which surpasses what you had done will just come up, he said. What we need to do is to embrace innovation, but let us begin to do something in this country that can rival, if not better what is coming through Viber or Skype. Mandiwanzira said that the idea was welcomed by operators and they have already crafted plans to raise money to support innovators. So we agreed to increase the amount we are contributing to the Universal Services Fund and a portion of that must now go to the innovation fund, to fund the young innovations, he said.Mandiwanzira said a number of CEOs in the industry had signed deals with innovators to develop applications to be used my mobile operators. I, therefore, want to point out that these young people do not need jobs, because if we give them jobs, we are killing the innovation. What they only need is a platform to develop their skills and ideas, he said We have a lot of opportunities, but if they are not taken up by our own innovators, they will be taken by foreign innovators and they will do the job for us. 