PRODUCERS of the much-waited 90-minute film, Escape, which premi red on Tuesday night at Ster-Kinekor Borrowdale as part of the Zimbabwe International Film Festival (ZIFF), said they were eyeing international platforms. BY WINSTONE ANTONIOThe African movie noir was co-directed by Agnieszka Piotrowska and Joe Njagu.Njagu told NewsDay they were happy with the final production and their focus now was to take the film to the people. We are overwhelmed with the support we have got today. What is next is to take the film to the people through a massive DVD release that will run concurrent with cinema screening, Njagu said. We are working on the logistics for it to be screened at different international festivals and I am confident that the movie will be well-received. The film which explores themes of love, loss, identity and race follows the story of a young man who travels to Zimbabwe from London after the death of his mother. Though his journey begins as a search for his father, Charles (played by Jos Marques) comes to find that there is more to discover about himself along the way.Afro-jazz musician Selmor Mtukudzi plays the character Anna, seasoned actor Eddie Sandifolo features as Munya, Munya Chidzonga is Detective Connor with Steve Chigorimbo, Jose Marques, Nothando Nobengula and Harare International Festival of Arts general manager, Maria Wilson, Daniel Tapera and Stuart Sakarombe completing the cast.Meanwhile, the kissing scene involving Afro-jazz musician Selmor and main actor Jose Marques has been received with mixed feelings. Njagu defended the scene as a professional act done after lengthy consultations with Selmor s husband, Tendai Manatsa. The kissing scene is a plot point in the movie that was shot in a professional way, having agreed with Tendai, who was also on the set when we shot it, Njagu said.Selmor said she accepted her role for the love of retracing her roots, having started acting at a younger age when she featured in a movie titled, I Am the Future. My branching into film just gives me an opportunity to express my artistry in a different way. I am really excited to see where and how far it takes me, Selmor said. This is something I am taking very seriously since I started out acting before I got into music. I will strive to achieve as much as I did in music. 