A YOUNGER brother to the late Chazezesa Challengers frontman System Tazvida has found the going tough as his bid to revive the sungura ace s legacy since taking over the band has failed due to financial challenges. BY JAIROS SAUNYAMA King Tazvida, who is based in Chitungwiza, told NewsDay yesterday that he was on a mission to revive Boys DzeSmoko, as the band was affectionately known among their fans.The lack of finances, however, has stalled the production of his six-track album titled, Moto Tokuchidzira, which could spell the band s comeback.Tazvida said he could have released the album a long time ago, but was only able to record songs as and when he got some money. We are still in the studio. We have done four songs so far and we are left with two. I am experiencing a number of problems in this industry, he said. The album is being delayed because of a shortage of money. After securing a few dollars, I record a part of the album. If I had a sponsor, I could have released an album already. Just like his brothers System who died in 1999 and his successor, Peter who also succumbed to illness in 2002 King said most of his songs were centred on love. These include Waimbondifonera Wani, Babie Nyarara, Usatye Mwanasikana, Zvedu Ndezvedzinza, Waindirongera Hondo and Rombe Rerudo.The dreadlocked musician said he is currently staging shows in mining towns where Smoko music is still popular, with his next show slated for Mutamba Bar in Battlefields tomorrow.He will be sharing the stage with Itai Muchawaya, son of the late revered musician, Ketai Muchawaya, best known as Mukoma Ketai. I wish a promoter would come along and assist me with things like transport to take me where I will be holding shows. Sometimes the shows flop and I am left with a challenge of paying the transporter I would have hired, he said.Before launching his own music career, Tazvida was a guitarist for Shungu Boys, an amateur band fronted by one Owen Soup.Boys DzeSmoko has a rich tradition in local music and was known for the hits such as Ndiridze Mhere, Kaserura Ndizvo and Anodyiwa Haataure.