We all have regrets in our lives. Regrets of lost opportunities, regrets of mistakes we made. Regrets of wrong investments we made and led to a loss of money! SUCCESS LIFE: JONAH NYONIRegrets of overspending. At times, we regret embarrassing ourselves in the presence of a date or important people and many more relational regrets. Such is life! I have come to learn one integral thing in life; there is nothing I can change about past mistakes. I can t go into my past and change the slate; it s done! It s gone and I have to learn to write a new slate. LearnWe have to learn from our past and appreciate the reasons we made mistakes, but we shouldn t be locked in the past. Our focus should not be on the past. One thing I have learnt is that when you allow you mind you regurgitate a particular thing, it consumes you.For example, I have seen people, who have been overtaken by their problems to an extent that they end up loudly talking to themselves. Stress is a result of being overcome by circumstances, which are beyond your control mentally or emotionally. Instead of constantly concentrating on our faults, we should learn from them and use them to explore future possibilities.If ever there was something that liberated my life, it was to learn how to forgive myself for the mistakes I made. Most people are caught up in their self-made jail, or in a maze of past mistakes, which torment them day and night. There is nothing as liberating as being told you have been forgiven by others, not only that, but to know that you have forgiven yourself is more liberating. From experience, you learn things you should not repeat as you already anticipate the consequences. Secondly, capitalise on the good things and improve on them.Don t bump into same wallLearn from pain, and get the lesson right. At times, we get into trouble, not because, we don t know, but because we thought it would work this time. If you gamble your money away, you learn a lesson not to do it again. But do you know what most people would do; they try again and again. Only to learn much later that this is not working at all! Why would you hit the same wall twice? For example, a drug might feel good, but the obvious is coming; pain. Why not learn that? Learn your lesson early and you won t spend your time trying to put your life on the right track. To prevent damage is less costly compared to repairing it.I don t need to be condemnedOne thing that liberates me in life is that I know I was never and I will never be perfect. So, I have no reason to demand perfection from imperfect people? There are some people that will forever want you to be crucified on your cross for your mistakes. I have such friends and family members. When you make a mistake, it s indelible in their minds and they will keep reminding you of all the bad things you did. These people want to keep you as their slaves. The best way to make someone your slave is to make them aware that they are a sinner. Such people at times want you to go to them for validation. Never seek validation from people; they might say you are not good enough! Don t allow people to tell you that you are not good enough.Know your worth and what you want in life and go get it! You have two major choices in life: You can be in control of your life, or you allow others to control it for you. Don t waste your time on what other people think of you. That&#8217;s an extra job; work on your craft until you are on the crest.Another good example I have realised as I train managers or leaders is that they are very quick to point out their subordinates mistakes and they seem not to see the good that employees have done. If, in a marriage, there is someone, who points to all the worst that the spouse has done, life becomes very difficult. I don t know if it s only I who feels this way, but there is nothing that paralyses me like condemnation. Work on your brand nowWhen you have made a mistake, you need to work on your brand. In the past weeks there has been a recall of the Samsung Galaxy Note 7s because of a battery problem. The major reason of the recall is that Samsung wants to work on its brand and offer a better product. Accept that you have had a problem, and now you must rewrite your life. For example, I speak and coach at schools, I have noticed that when a girl falls pregnant, they have a hard time forgiving themselves because of stereotypes associated with that pregnancy.You are a great brand in your own right! Never allow someone to tell you that you will not amount to anything, including your boss! Greatness is the ability to win in small things. Do those small daily things so as to grow a new positive brand. The most important step towards your success is to decide who you want to be and not staying where you are. When revenge is the only way outI love revenge, but not in a negative way. It has been said that the best revenge in life is to be extremely successful. This revenge is when your enemies thought you were dead and buried only to realise that you hit the news headlines for great reasons. Not that you are showing off, but because you won t give up because of you past failures. Life is so cruel at times, it won t give you what you want and wish for, but what you demand or fight for. Place a higher demand and revenge for all your failures. Enjoy your lifeDon t be caught up in the regrets of yesterday or in the rituals of the now , not to envision the greatness of the future. Ralph Waldo Emerson once said, What lies behind us, and what lies before us, are tiny matters compared to what lies within us . You have greatness in you. Don&#8217;t let life keep you on your knees, get up and get your life back! Never let your past mistakes bog you down. It s time to rise from your ashes and live life to the best. Enjoy life. I always wonder, if there is nothing to enjoy in life, what s there to live for?Jonah Nyoni is an author, success coach and leadership trainer. He is the author of Inspiration for Success and Success Within Reach. Email: jonah@classicmail.co.za. Twitter @jonahnyoni