CHARLES Manyuchi s opponent in Friday s non-title fight, Jose Agustin Julio Feria from Colombia, arrived in the country yesterday, warning he is here to cause an upset. BY HENRY MHARAJose Agustin Julio Feria of Colombia addresses the media at Harare International AirportTheir eight-round fight is the main attraction on the night, where there are eight other matches including the WBC title fight between Malawian boxer, Agness Mtimaukanena Mwando and Zambian Lolitha Muzeya are lined up. Manyuchi, who was initially pencilled to fight Damien Martin before the Frenchman pulled out in unclear circumstances, is using the fight to prepare for a rematch with Russian Dmitry Mikhaylenko in a mandatory defence fight of his WBC silver welterweight title set for the European country on November 4.Feria, ranked 470 in the world, 448 places below Manyuchi, touched down at the Harare International Airport, and gave a brief interview to the waiting journalists before he was whisked away in a Rolls and Royce. I have come here not to play, but to put up a very good fight and I know it will be a very tough fight, but I m looking forward to it. The Zimbabwean people should come and see the way I will fight. The Colombian, whose record of 21-3-1 includes 14 knockouts, will be fighting outside his country for the first time. All his losses were through knockouts. It s the first time to fight outside Colombia, and it will be a challenge, but I m looking forward to it, Feria said.Manyuchi, seven years Feria s junior, has a 19-2-1 record that includes 11 knockouts.He becomes the third boxer to arrive in the country for the highly anticipated fight night after Mtimaukanena and Muzeya, who landed on Sunday. I have been given massive support by Malawians and the corporate world. I have prepared for nothing less than a win, Mtimaukanena who is married to Zimbabwean boxer Brain Mwando, said. I cannot wait to get into the ring on Friday and I don t think she (Muzeya) will not withstand my punches. The other supporting acts include Zimbabwe s Tinashe Mutodza taking on Malawian Mumbela Mukune in a welterweight bout, while locals, Trevor Mpofu and Aleck Gogoda clash in a heavyweight bout. Zambia s Barbra Banda faces Ellen Simwaka, while Donald Kampamba and Wesley MacDade will also clash. The other match is between Alfred Muwowo and Anyway Katunga in a flyweight bout. The organisers have pegged the charges for the fight at between $5 and $50.