A FULL house of comedy enthusiasts was left in stitches as some of the country s finest comic performers Samantha Gonyeti Kureya, Doc Vikela, Ntando Van Moyo, Q the Boss and Babongile Sikhonjwa took turns to poke at the proposed introduction of bond notes during Wednesday s Intwasa Comedy Night in Bulawayo. BY SINDISO DUBENtando Van MoyoThe jokes were also centred on the country s fledgling economy characterised by biting cash shortages. It was a big night for Gonyeti, who is fitting well into the ambience of stand-up comedy show business, after cutting her teeth at the outskirts on video skits circulated on social media platforms by Bustop TV. The American dollar is in short supply in the country. That currency only stays where there is peace. In America there is peace. The Zimbabwean government has no peace that s why the currency is in short supply. That s why men take the currency to the Avenues (Harare s red light district) to sexual workers because there is a lot of peace and joy at the avenues. Here in Bulawayo, this happens in Barrow Street, she said, sending her audience into fits of laughter.Gonyeti also poked fun at First Lady Grace Mugabe saying since her entry into politics, the country s economy went from bad to worse.The heavily-built Gonyeti also poked fun at slim women saying they mistook unhealthy eating habits for dieting and confused being slim with beauty, before urging men to go for fuller, curvaceous women.Doc Vikela said countries that had their own currency were synonymous with dead presidents, adding that bond notes were not the solution. Zimbabwe is not ready for its own currency. Look at the countries that have their own money. They need a dead president s face to put on the notes. So for Zimbabwe, whose face are we going to put on the notes? Doc Vikela queried, attracting more laughter.Ntando Moyo, Q the Boss and Babongile Sikonjwa took the bar higher with equally rib-cracking performances. Meanwhile, Gonyeti will join emerging comedian Parama Stove for a performance at Masvingo Agricultural Show this weekend. Masvingo Provincial Show Society chairperson Trust Chaputsira confirmed the development. Comedians Gonyeti and Parama Stove will entertain the audience, he said.