HIGHLANDERS coach Erol Akbay has described Ngezi Platinum as a tough opponent after the two teams were drawn together in the Chibuku Super Cup semi-finals in a draw conducted in Harare yesterday. BY FORTUNE MBELEThe semi-finals have been set for the weekend of October 22-23 at venues yet to be decided with a Premier Soccer League saying the venues would be announced at a later date after consultations with SuperSport with both matches set to be broadcast live.Highlanders knocked out How Mine via a penalty shootout following a regulation time draw in the quarter-finals while Ngezi Platinum thumped Tsholotsho FC 4-1 at Baobab Stadium.FC Platinum, who edged Triangle 1-0 at Gibbo Stadium on Sunday, have been drawn against holders Harare City, whom they also clash with on Saturday in the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League at Rufaro Stadium.Akbay, who oversaw Highlanders complete a league double over Ngezi Platinum, expects the semi-finals to be tough for all four teams involved. Ngezi are not an easy team, they are very difficult to beat, he said yesterday. We just have to maintain our focus if we are to reach the final. Actually, it is not going to be easy for all the four teams that are in the semi-finals to reach the final. All the four teams have so much power and belief in themselves; it is not an easy draw for anyone. He said he preferred to play Ngezi Platinum either at Barboufields Stadium or at Baobab Stadium. I would prefer to play at Barbourfields, our home ground, or go to Baobab because it s a small stadium and they do not get too many fans in there. I wouldn t have wanted to go anywhere else. Last year s semi-finals, featuring Harare City against ZPC Kariba as well as Dynamos versus Chapungu, were both played at Mandava Stadium.In the only match between the two sides so far this season, Harare City and FC Platinum drew nil-all in a league encounter at Mandava Stadium.The two clash this weekend for the reverse tie, but a bonus fixture between them has been lined up in the Chibuku Super Cup semi-final.Harare City coach Moses Chunga was not fussy about whom they would draw, describing all teams as tough. For me, the outcome of the draw does not come as a surprise because if you progress to the semi-finals, you know you will obviously play a tough opponent. For you to reach the semi-finals you have to be good, so even if it was a team coming from Division One it would not be easy. We have two weeks to prepare for the game and I am happy that as we play them (FC Platinum) on Saturday, my players that were injured are back. 