A hut belonging to Zimbabwe People First (ZimPF) Marondera West constituency co-ordinator Taungana Makirimira was on Friday torched by suspected Zanu PF supporters as political violence and intimidation against opposition party members spreads in Mashonaland East. By Own CorrespondentMakirimira said the arson occurred around midnight. He said two of his children heard footsteps outside, before realising that their thatched hut was on fire. No one was injured, but goods such as groceries and maize seeds were burnt.The matter was reported at Landors Police Station under case number RRB 2584450. I was away on family business when it happened. My sons who were home heard footsteps before they realised that the hut was on fire. They failed to put out the fire. In the morning my sons and our neighbours noticed some footprints of about five people around the hut, Makirimira said I reported the matter to the police and investigations are in progress. I believe this is politically-motivated since there have been clashes between my party and Zanu PF. After the attack, some Zanu PF youths were stalking me. Efforts to get a comment from Mashonaland East Province acting police spokesperson Assistant Inspector Tendai Mwanza were fruitless.ZimPF provincial interim spokesperson Setfree Mafukidze yesterday said the ruling party should stop its supporters from targeting opposition members. We are concerned with the continued physical and arson attacks on our membership by suspected Zanu PF thugs. The ruling party should rein in on its supporters to stop these brutal attacks on members of opposition political parties countrywide, Mafukidze said. The attack on Makirimira is one of the many cases we have experienced in Mashonaland East against our supporters. As a party, we will offer the necessary assistance to our member so that his homestead becomes habitable again for the sake of his family. Our members in the province have also come in to assist with various donations which include foodstuffs, maize seed and clothing for the affected. Recently a female ZimPF member in Mutawatawa was hospitalised after she was attacked by suspected Zanu PF youths who accused her of supporting the Joice Mujuru-led party.