Whatever you think about your spouse will form your attitude towards them. If you, therefore, dwell on negative thoughts, you develop a very negative attitude towards your spouse. OPINION: KILTON MOYOMany of us, couples, are caught up in this web and as a result, we have suffocated our relationships. Love does not think evil. This is what the Bible teaches us in 1 Corinthians 13: 5. If we were truly walking in this kind of love, we would not be thinking what we are thinking about our spouses. Let me just show you: Maybe you always think your spouse is cheating on you and these thoughts have tortured you so much that you no longer trust your innocent spouse. You are doing everything it takes to prove your thoughts. You are now even harassing somebody who loves you dearly, just because of your uncalled for fears. This is one reason why couples fight over cell phones these days. Maybe you think your spouse does not love you anymore.This preoccupies your mind and you see it the way you think and yet the person loves you. This happens with spouses who wait on their partner to love them or show them love. They never make an effort themselves to give and play love. They are receivers. Maybe you think your spouse is bewitching you. Many people think this way. You are seeing a witch in your spouse. It is normally us, men, who think this way. It amazes me that we marry people, innocent people, and suddenly they want to kill us in our minds. This is sad. Now you are all over the world running around to every prophet, using every kind of concoction and oil they give you trying to protect yourself from your own thoughts. See how much money you are losing because of what you think? See how much your thoughts have hurt you and your relationship. You see, many couples are caught up in these negative thoughts and attitudes. Many are caught up in this suspicion. You do not have evidence, but you are just suspicious. This is why you want to go through their phone every day. You are checking on who they are talking to. You want an explanation for every call. Beloved, this is deception. You are no longer enjoying what you are supposed to enjoy. Your marriage has become a curse and a pain just because you are suspicious and afraid of nothing.I mean have you never heard people speak so badly about their spouses? You wonder how love can be so evil against what it loves. I am one who believes that most of us really need to learn what love is all about. Negative thoughts, suspicions, jealousy, negative words, talking too much, policing your spouse and mistrust are enemies of love. They are never the language or behaviour of love. They are not in the dimension of love. Infact they destroy your love for your spouse.Let me suggest to you a few things.Try your best, with the leading of the Holy Spirit, to renew your thinking towards your spouse. See a lover and not an enemy. See a trustworthy person and not the opposite. See a life-giver and not a witch.Think lovely things about your spouse. Fill your mind with beautiful memories. I am not saying ignore some issues, but the duty of love is not to keep a record of evil. Love endures and keeps admiring. Always see your spouse lovely and attractive. Move away quickly from the things that divide and dwell in love no matter what.Strive to always give a good report about your spouse. If you understand love, you will not badmouth your spouse. Love affirms. Love builds. Love praises. Teach your mouth to love. Fill your heart with love for the one you love. Be always proud of your spouse. Admire every little thing in every step. This means you are affirming and praising. You do not want others to be proud of your spouse more than you are. People get connected to those who praise them. Be the number one fan of your spouse. Trust your spouse always. If you trust them you will not even think of fighting over a phone. It s sad to see how much of a curse cell phones have become to many marriages. It s all about trust. If trust lacks in a marriage then there is abuse. It s all about what you are thinking about your spouse. Build trust.But you know what; all these things can be put off by your thoughts. Maybe it is a culture thing, but we need to learn to love and to grow love. Loving your spouse is not just through sexual activity, but it s about everything, your thoughts, words, attitudes, actions, and many others. We need to learn to fill our minds with love and truth and honesty. Why not take time to review your thoughts and renew the mind so you can love again? Beloved, marriage is a place of love, fun, joy, play, excitement, romance, sex, praise, affirmation and worshipping God. Let us just make it what it is. Take care of what you are thinking right now.Fruitful Marriages is an enrichment programme meant to help you make your marriage work. We help you with all the levels of fitness in marriage. Our exciting school of marriage is for everyone who desires to enjoy a blissful marriage. Kilton Moyo is creator of Fruitful Marriages, a renewal and enrichment program and is pastor, counselor and author of The Sex Trap. Call or whatsap on +263 775 337 207, +263 772 610 103 or citizenafricafoundation@gmail.com