EX-Zimbabwe People s Revolutionary Army (Zipra) combatants have accused the Zanu PF government of deliberately denying them an opportunity to give their own narrative of the liberation struggle. BY KHANYILE MLOTSHWAMoffat Hadebe, former Zipra commander claimed that top Zanu PF politicians, the media and State institutions involved in the collection of liberation war data had connived to shun all ex-Zapu and Zipra cadres. Sometime a certain minister, whose name I will not mention, came to me and told me that they were learning about me, he said. I asked him if he was sure that he was learning about me, considering the pathetic life I live. He promised that they will address our (poverty) situation. What pains me more is that they teach and they learn about me, without asking me and allowing me the chance to speak about what I saw and what I experienced during the liberation struggle. It is only when I went to Mafela Trust that I realised that most of my fellow ex-combatants in Zipra had the same challenges. We are being silenced out of history, even as there are efforts to create the impression that they are learning about us. No one can speak better than us about our experiences. According to Zipra history, Hadebe was the first man to fire a gun on Rhodesian soil to mark the beginning of the armed struggle against white minority rule in 1964.He is aged 79.Hadebe said, if there was an honesty and truth, he should be allowed to say what he knows, so that if I make a mistake, my fellow comrades can fill in the gaps. In short, we want those of us who participated in the liberation struggle who are still alive to tell the nation about what we saw and experienced. No one should speak on our behalf as if we are dead. Mafela Trust national director Zephania Nkomo also described the anomaly as disturbing and annoying. It is unacceptable and treacherous and indeed saddening that Zipra pioneers of the liberation struggle wallow in poverty and neglect in the full knowledge of their existence, he said.Nkomo said this was made more sinister by the fact that there were people going around looting information about the contributions of patriots like Hadebe for their own benefit. These information looters are perpetrating weird and callous acts of sabotage against Zipra history, he said. These people are ploughing seeds of disharmony as they claim stolen victories. Zipra history, and the survivors of that revolution, have endured, throughout the past three decades and more, unfair treatment in this country. 