THREE Bulawayo City Football Club players registered under the developmental quota have been suspended by the Premier Soccer League (PSL) amid allegations of age-cheating. BY FORTUNE MBELEUtility player Lewis Ncube, who has been actively involved in some of Bulawayo City s league matches, Bothwell Nyathi and Dean Phelius Sibanda had their licences withdrawn by the PSL pending investigations.According their licences, Ncube was born on January 24, 1997, Nyathi on October 1, 1998 and Sibanda on November 24, 1998.Ncube was registered as a developmental player at Highlanders in 2012.An unidentified source last week called NewsDay offices querying Sibanda s age, which he said he had seen on the PSL website, saying he went to school with the player, prompting investigations.The PSL also said it had received anonymous calls with the players ages questioned. Communications officer, Kudzai Bare yesterday said, guided by the information they gathered from the anonymous caller, they had since made their own investigations and the three players had been suspended. We got an anonymous call regarding the three players (Bothwell Nyathi, Lewis Ncube and Dean Sibanda) and through their club, Bulawayo City we gave the players some forms to give us details of their backgrounds. We felt it was important for us to investigate and gave them the forms to update their statuses. We have then decided to suspend them based on the information they gave us pending further investigations. Preliminary findings indicate that the players have a case to answer, Bare said.Bulawayo City could be charged for flouting PSL rules and regulations over supplying false information.Bulawayo City FC acting chief executive officer, Mackenzie Moyo yesterday confirmed receiving correspondence from the PSL suspending the three players. We have three players, who are being investigated for altering their ages. We just received the letter of suspension from the PSL yesterday (Thursday) and we have obliged. I have since signed the letters of suspension and advised the coaches not to use the players. We will try to co-operate with the PSL so they complete their investigations, he said.