MDC-T national organising secretary, Abednico Bhebhe, has declared that God will intervene and remove President Robert Mugabe from power if the 92-year-old Zanu PF leader rigs his way back into power in the crunch 2018 election. BY NQOBANI NDLOVUPresident R.G.MugabeAddressing MDC-T supporters during the party s 17th anniversary celebrations in Bulawayo on Saturday, Bhebhe said Mugabe was now facing the twin combination of the ballot box and God s will. Actually, today we are celebrating the demise of that one man who has destroyed Zimbabwe. If Mugabe rigs the elections in 2018 to claim victory against us, God will help us and remove him. He may rig, but God will intervene to remove him, he told cheering party supporters.Bhebhe later told Southern Eye that God will not continue watching, but will intervene at the appropriate time to redeem Zimbabweans from Zanu PF misrule. I meant to say Mugabe is a human being just like us and that God cannot let him continue to crucify other human beings for that long. Mugabe will meet his maker, he said, urging the Zanu PF leader to heed public calls for him to step down.MDC-T leader, Morgan Tsvangirai said Mugabe must step down or face a violent exit.But Mugabe, in power since 1980, has brushed away such calls, claiming he still had the mandate to complete his current term and contest the 2018 elections, as mandated by his party.Recently, Botswana President Ian Khama said Mugabe had become a liability to Zimbabwe and the Sadc region.However, Mugabe s hangers-on have scoffed at Khama s remarks.On Saturday, a State media columnist revealed to be Mugabe s spokesperson, George Charamba, dressed down Khama in his Nathaniel Manheru column. The trouble is to begin to think that our views on Khama matter to the Tswana nation and its whole governance processes. Simple they don t, and, by reverse logic, Khama s views on Mugabe can only be just that: airy views soon to be blown away into the nether, Manheru wrote. Mugabe does not need the endorsement of Khama, and this whole piece has had to be written not because Khama s views matter, but because he seems to think they do when it comes to Zimbabwean politics. Much worse, because a fringe body of opinion in this country seems to think Khama matters. He does not, except in his own country and among his own people. 