VOTER education and registration remain a core issue if the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (Zec) is to deliver a credible poll in 2018, an election lobby group has said. BY RICHARD CHIDZAThe Zimbabwe Election Support Network (Zesn), in a statement this week, called for timeous registration of civil society partners to ensure prospective voters get the requisite information ahead of the elections. In view of the challenges experienced during the 2013 voter registration exercise, where thousands of potential voters were not registered due to insufficient information on voter registration procedures and requirements, inadequate funding, lack of adequate personnel and the slow processing of registration queues, Zesn, therefore, calls for proper planning on the part of Zec and urges the government to provide adequate financial and technical support to enable Zec to discharge the new voter registration model in an effective manner, Zesn said.The advocacy group has been critical of the poll management body s capacity and willingness to engage local independent observers to ensure the credibility of elections. The group added that the envisaged biometric voter registration (BVR) exercise requires a transparent process. Zesn believes that while the polling station-based BVR system alone is not the panacea for credible, free and fair elections, there is need for transparency and accountability in the implementation of this process. In addition, the process should be accompanied by other electoral reforms such as the alignment of electoral laws to the Constitution, and the independence of Zec in its operations without any executive interference, amongst others. Zesn, therefore, reiterates that Zec should continuously engage with electoral stakeholders on all electoral processes to build trust and confidence, the statement said.The group raised a red flag regarding voting thresholds at polling stations. Of concern is the proposed threshold of voters per polling station, which is pegged at 800 to 1 500. Zesn believes that 1 500 is too high and may congest polling stations particularly in highly populated areas. The network, therefore, proposes that the maximum threshold be reduced to 1 000 drawing lessons from the recently-held Zambian elections, where the threshold was 900, Zesn said. Zec says, voter registration, under the new system, is to begin in May next year, but Zesn seemed unhappy with the time. Zesn calls upon Zec to ensure that this crucial exercise is awarded adequate time to guarantee that the process is inclusive and comprehensive so as to safeguard against the disenfranchisement of any potential voters. Furthermore, for the BVR process to succeed, it should allow ample time for intensive voter education so as to allay any fears and misconceptions about the use of information communication technologies in the registration process. The implementation of the polling station-based biometric voter registration system in the current political environment might result in targeted violence and intimidation, hence, the need for the creation of a conducive political environment, the group said. Moreover, Zec should timeously accredit civic society organisations to conduct voter education and publicity on the new voter registration model to ensure comprehensive information is delivered and geographically covers all areas of the country adequately. Zesn also called for a solution to the contentious Diaspora vote.