LOCAL fashion designer Sidumiso Tshuma showcased his knight-themed collection at the Durban Exhibition Centre in South Africa on Wednesday last week to great acclaim. BY SINDISO DUBETshuma who is well-known for his clothing brand, Shadow by Sidumiso participated at the fair held at Durban Exhibition Centre as part of the twinning relationship between Bulawayo and Ethekwini. The twinning agreement was signed in 2010 and Bulawayo has been participating at the annual Celebrate Durban festival since the signing of the memorandum of understanding in 2002.Showcasing at the fair for the third time, Tshuma was one of the favourites at the show. After showcasing last year, the Zimbabwean designer dressed South African Idols judge and television personality, Somizi Mhlongo. Working on the knight collection proved that I can do so much with fabrics. My collection is a mixture of woollen material, suiting, jacket material and some metallic in all shades of grey. The collection represents a strong being and cuts through issues of colour by having the colours incorporated into different shades of grey, he said. A knight is a strong person, who pushes through, no matter what, it portrays how we, as Zimbabweans and Africans, fight through life in our everyday struggles and beauties. Tshuma was invited again this year to showcase at the fair alongside compatriot, Nkanyeziyethu Malunga of Ganu. Both Tshuma and Malunga went through the grooming and training internship programme run by Hunnar Management Agency in collaboration with Edgars Stores Limited. Malunga, who recently participated in the John Ablaza Project, which involved working with other designers and fellow artisans, is also an alumni of the Intwasa Fashion Show.The fair had been having mixed collections by designers from across Africa before introducing a separate event solely for menswear. Menswear collections were showcased on Wednesday by South Africa s Black Pepper, Afro Amanno, House of St Luke, Gravitie, Eullue, Nigeria s Clemas, Ghana s Abrantie The Gentleman, Duke, Hombre and Shadow By Sidumiso.