WHILE the government tries hard to evince an appearance of stability and being in control, it is becoming increasingly clear that it is totally bereft of ideas on how to deal with the 16-year-old economic logjam that has seen the country teetering on the brink. LEARNMORE ZUZEThe sharp and embarrassing contradiction with regard to the awarding of bonuses last week tells of an administration at war with itself. For the second time, pronouncements by Finance minister Patrick Chinamasa to put bonuses in abeyance were shot down and, naturally, Zimbabweans will ask whether this establishment can be trusted at all.No matter how hard we may deny this, a new dispensation is urgently needed in dealing with the Zimbabwean crisis. Not much can be expected from the status quo now; it s a given.Some may want to describe the new dispensation as a transitional authority or an amalgamation of political parties, but the self-evident truth is that the current administration is manifestly out of sorts.It s like a child obstinately clinging on to a gadget they can t operate.Albert Einstein said that it is difficult, almost impossible, for anyone to solve a problem at the same level of thinking they were when they created the problem. This wisdom-packed statement cannot be truer for Zimbabwe. The incumbent administration, in power for the last 36 years, simply can t find a way out of this economic rut.The country has witnessed unprecedented anarchy in recent weeks, resulting in the suspension of demonstrations.The government, however, must not rejoice that demonstrations have been banned because this, by no means, takes away the fact of crisis in this country.Going back in time, about a decade and a half ago, one can see that what we have today is simply the manifestation of things that began to go awry years ago.A host of problems has hit Zimbabwe since 1999 and each time the common factor has been failure by the national leadership to proffer lasting solutions.To start with, the turn of the century witnessed the random occupation of farms owned by whites. Innocent people lost their lives as a result. Thousands of farm workers were displaced under the government s so-called fast-track land reform programme.It was about the same period that the government doled out Z$50 000 gratuities to veterans of the liberation struggle. It was also about the time that Zimbabwe threw itself into the Democratic Republic of Congo war, largely viewed as needless, which sucked millions out of Treasury.It was also about the time when massive corruption hit the Grain Marketing Board with unspeakable millions of dollars unaccounted for and the late Kumbirai Kangai was fingered but later went scot-free as the parastatal bled beyond recovery.It was about the time the government introduced the regrettable Economic Structural Adjustment Programme (ESAP) which led to massive job losses.Subsequent populist policies were to be introduced to the detriment of the once-vibrant economy.Zimbabwe today is in the grip of an unrelenting economic crisis. Today, one needs a whole day to catalogue the problems facing Zimbabwe: From the jaw-dropping unemployment rate, industrial stagnation, mega rot in parastatals, liquidity crunch to the colossal corruption in State institutions. Now, faced with these gigantic problems, created in almost four decades, it would really be akin to expecting a team that squandered scoring opportunities, missed penalties and scored own goals to now score in the 94th minute.A new perspective, a fresh angle of looking at things is needed to get Zimbabwe in the groove again. It is regrettable that the idea of a transitional authority is unlikely to see the light of day.Zanu PF would rather hang on to power despite glaring failure and this we have seen. They are unlikely to come to the negotiating table. Because, confronted with the justified demand to rectify these ills, the government would rather issue out threats.In fact, Zanu PF s invective against anyone holding different views is astounding; one, in their eyes, is either a puppet of the West or an enemy of the people.For asking that the economy be mended, one is labelled an agent of Western imperialism. But then we can t all see things with the same eye. We can t sycophantically agree with what is evidently base. The economy is not right.People need jobs and industry needs revival. If we pretend that these things are not urgent, then we are not being true to ourselves. Threatening a desperate people asking for simple accountability and a decent living isn t the way of democracy.It is even surprising that the government would want to abet lawlessness by having youths from a political party assisting in apprehending people exercising constitutionally guaranteed rights.Ostensibly, the youths would be said to be assisting the police, but in essence they will foment violence that can easily escalate into civil war.This economic paralysis requires an urgent new level of thinking.Indeed we can t expect Zimbabwean problems to be solved at the same level they were created.