Caps United are bracing themselves for an uncomfortable afternoon in Beitbridge, not only because of the high temperatures, but also because of a tough Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match against hosts Border Strikers at Dulivhadzimo Stadium tomorrow afternoon. BY FORTUNE MBELEIt looks like there is no way back for Border Strikers, who sit at the bottom of the log 10 points from the safety zone, but the top-flight debutants are refusing to throw in the towel.While they have struggled this season, of late they have been picking up points at home. In their last five matches they have picked seven points at home with wins against Ngezi Platinum, Dynamos and a draw against FC Platinum.Caps United are well aware of these statistics and what to expect in the border town. We have done our homework on Border Strikers and we realise they have been picking up points at home and they are going be very tough opponents, Caps United assistant coach Mark Mathe said yesterday. We are not underestimating them at all, but we have prepared well for the match. We don t want to put ourselves under pressure about a lot of things and we are just focusing on our match against Border Strikers because that is what we have control over for now. Pressure is something Caps cannot avoid at this stage, more so if their title rivals FC Platinum and Highlanders win their matches this afternoon.They will throw everything in it this time and they have given Tafadzwa Rusike every chance to make the trip. Caps have won four of their last five matches where they have avoided defeat and they will be looking for another set of maximum points.Caps, who trail log leaders FC Platinum by a single point, will be without defender Stephen Makatuka, who is suspended owing to accumulation of three yellow cards.They have enough experience in their side to carry them through with so much pressure for wins at this stage of the season.The likes of striker Leonard Tsipa and midfielder Devon Chafa have been champions before and know how to grind out results in games like these.The hosts, however, will be looking to give it their best even if they are to eventually go down to the second-tier league. Coach Luke Masomere wants to wring everything out of his players to achieve a win. We are not yet relegated. We are fighting for survival and looking forward to a good game against Caps United on Sunday (tomorrow), he said. I am not good at statistics of how we have played at Dulivhadzimu or how Caps have performed of late; I am only good in tactics and I hope my strategy works on Sunday, Masomere said.FixturesToday: Ngezi Platinum v Tsholotsho (Baobab), ZPC Kariba v Triangle (Nyamhunga), How Mine v Mutare City (Luveve), Harare City v FC Platinum (Rufaro), Chapungu v Highlanders (Ascot)Tomorrow: Bulawayo City v Chicken Inn (Barbourfields), Dynamos v Hwange (Rufaro), Border Strikers v Caps United (Dulivhadzimu)