THE late Vice-President Simon Vengesai Muzenda s widow, Maud, has demanded that government erects a statue of her husband in Masvingo to preserve his legacy and keep it alive. By Tatenda ChitaguMuzenda, dubbed The Soul of The Nation died 13 years ago at the age of 80. He was declared a national hero and buried at the National Heroes Acre.He hailed from Zvavahera in Gutu district, Masvingo province.In an interview on the side-lines of a memorial golf tournament held at Masvingo Sports Club yesterday, where the Muzenda family donated golf kits to St Don Bosco Primary and Mucheke High schools, Maud said the government should do the same as it did in Bulawayo by erecting a statue in honour of the late Vice-President Joshua Nkomo. I appreciate all that is being done to keep my late hubby s legacy alive. It is a good job that everyone is remembering my husband. My wish, however, is to have a statue of my husband erected in Masvingo city, just like in Bulawayo, where the late VP Nkomo s statue is erected, she said.A nurse by profession, Maud said Dr Mzee, as Muzenda was affectionately known, contributed immensely to the country s liberation war and served in government until his death, hence his efforts should be further recognised. He did a lot for this country before, during and after independence. In the liberation war, we lost a child, Thereza Muchapedzei, when Chimoio camp was bombed by the Rhodesian Forces. Others survived miraculously, she said. Maud said Muzenda started his political activism in Masvingo and, hence, it would be befitting for his statue to be erected in the country s oldest city. He (Muzenda) started his political activism in Mucheke suburb s R section. Hence, Masvingo city would be appropriate for the statue, she added.Muzenda s two eight-decades old grass-thatched huts in Mucheke suburb were declared a national heritage site and cultural centre by the Friends of Joshua Nkomo Trust.The city council has also spared the grass-thatched huts from being demolished.Maud bemoaned lack of corporate sponsorship for the late VP s memorial events, like the annual Half Marathon held in Gutu s Mpandawana growth point, as well as the weekend golf tournament.Last year, the family said it self-sponsored the Gutu Half Marathon to keep Muzenda s legacy alive.Apart from Nkomo s statue, President Robert Mugabe has had his own statue erected while he is still alive.A fortnight ago, Mugabe was presented with a giant sculpture by Dominic Benhura, as well as another one by Masvingo artists.