. . . as Romain Virgo spices up pageant. JAMAICAN reggae star Romain Virgo, who staged his maiden Zimbabwean show on Saturday night at Black Opal Face of Zimbabwe (Bofoz) beauty pageant at the Glamis Arena in Harare, gave a memorable performance, as Hazvineyi Chiota was crowned the 2016 queen.BY WINSTONE ANTONIOBofoz 2016 queen Hazvineyi Chiota (centre) is flanked by first princess Mazvita Chakawa (left) and second princess Robin ChivangaAlthough the concert, organised by Black Opal Zimbabwe, Yolana Investments and Chipaz Promotions failed to attract a mega crowd, Romain Virgo s performance was, nonetheless, a thriller, as he belted out hits including Love Sick, Stay With Me, Stars Across The Sky, Love Doctor, Freedom and Soul Provider. Romain Virgo at one time called dancehall singer Soul Jah Love and Jah Prayzah to the stage, but the Mdara Vachauya singer snubbed the call.This did not go down well with fans, although Jah Prayzah later performed as a closing act. Gospel diva Fungisai Zvakavapano-Mashavave s performance and Judgement Yard s set were marred by technical glitches due to an electrical fault, disrupting performances on three occasions, much to the chagrin of fans.Some dancehall fans felt cheated as HKD boss, Freeman, left them disappointed, since he failed to turn up for the concert amid reports that he had been double-booked.The Joina City hitmaker was reportedly performing in Kadoma alongside sungura musician Peter Moyo, while another chanter, Dobba Don, of the Mudendere fame, looked upset and walked out of the venue with no explanation before his proposed slot.Meanwhile, the new Bofoz queen walked away $8 000 richer with a year s supply of Black Opal skincare and colour cosmetics, among other prizes, ahead of 10 other contestants, who were also vying for the crown. The pageant is also open to married and fuller women, as focus is just on the face and knowledge of Black Opal products. Chiota amassed 873 points, while Mazvita Chakawa and Robin Chivanga got 744 and 684 points to be capped first and second princess respectively. A holder of a Higher Diploma in Accounting and currently studying Law with the University of South Africa, Chiota said it was a challenging task as she competed with youngsters. This is my first time to be involved and participate at a modelling pageant and I fell honoured to be crowned the queen. It was not that easy, but I kept pushing myself as someone who had faith, Chiota said. For being crowned the queen, I have found myself and I am hoping to advance and do some modelling jobs since I have passion in motivating people to push beyond their limits. Chiota acknowledged her husband, Roland Rukade, and her family for their unwavering support.Bofoz organisers also gave back to their customers, as they honoured a lucky female winner who drove away in a Toyota IST.