HWANGE Colliery Company Limited (HCCL) expects to raise capital after the scheme of arrangement and balance sheet restructuring scheduled for the end of this year. BY VICTORIA MTOMBAIn a statement accompanying the financial statement, board chairman Winston Chitando said the scheme of arrangement was the starting point for the turnaround strategy, which was now at an advanced planning stage. It is envisaged that the scheme of arrangement will be implemented at the same time with conversion of some debts into long-term financial instruments. It is planned to convene an extraordinary general meeting in the next two months, at which detailed proposals will be tabled for approval by shareholders, he said.Chitando said the scheme of arrangement would help the company raise short, medium and long-term capital to operate at optimum capacity and to implement strategies that include the production of high margin products being coking coal and coke and benefiting from coke by product sales and the development of western areas and coal concessions, development of the coal bed methane opportunity and exploring the potential if any of converting coal into fuels.HCCL narrowed its loss after tax of $28,4 million for the six months ended June 2016 from $44m recorded during the comparable period last year, after undertaking a number of cost-cutting measures.Revenue declined to $24,5 million compared to $35,3 million recorded during the same period last year.Operating loss was $25,9m compared to an operating loss of $48m for the comparative period last year. There was a notable decrease in administrative costs resultant from the cost-containment measures adopted by the company. Finance costs for the period amounted to $1,8m compared to $1,1m for the same period last year. The burden of servicing debts continued strain the company s cash flows thereby presenting working capital challenges to the company, Chitando said.He said the company s performance was below the budgetary targets due to low production levels attributable to working capital constraints.Monthly production average was 113 862 tonnes compared to the budgeted monthly production of 340 000t. Consequently the company could not meet the market demand occasioned by product stock outs. Total sales tonnage was 585 689 against a budget of 1 771 820 and actual of 842 871 for the same period last year. HCC/HIC coal sales during the period decreased by 35% from 326 075t to 211 858t, he said.There was a decrease in the sales of coal fines and breeze from 109 110t to 64 413t for the comparative periods.Coke sales volume decreased from 7 584t achieved in the first half of 2015 to 1 040t for the period under review due to the cancellation of toll coking arrangements.Recently, Mines and Mining Development minister Walter Chidakwa said the company was set to sale coking coal to a South African company under an off-take arrangement and the two companies were finalising the deal.Chidakwa said the company would be selling off some of its properties and will remain with 1 000 units for the workers.