Jonathan Moyo is now a fugitive as the Zimbabwe Anti Corruption Commission hunts him for emptying the ministerial cash box an issue that has reignited debate around corruption issues denudating our economy. By Pardon Maguta,Our ReaderHigher Education minister Jonathan MoyoThe media is awash with reports of alleged grand theft involving the siphoning of close to $500 000 by Moyo and his subordinates. Corruption is a vice every development-minded person does not need. Greedy people wallow in corruption. Moyo s alleged actions, if true, show that being educated does not make one the standard bearer of uprightness and sound reasoning. Though highly-educated, Moyo is not trustworthy or morally upright. His political turncoat activities make him a possible candidate of corruption.The corruption allegations have exposed him. Even his self-regard will not save him. He is infamous for defending the regime, but cannot defend himself.Although many people never took him seriously since he started his on and off romance with Zanu PF now I think even President Robert Mugabe doubts his sincerity and faithfullness to the party and President, he vehemently defends at any given chance.The learned man is neither denying the theft charges nor saying much to distance himself from the robbery. The Twitter chats seem to blame Zanu PF factions for the theft. He seems to suggest many ministers are doing it and why not him. He again hints at tribalism.Moyo is remembered for saying it is cold out there in reference to his stint outside Zanu PF after Mugabe showed him the exit door because of the Tsholotsho Declaration.By cold analysts now believe he meant the absence of looting opportunities. Moyo must stop talking of tribalists, successionists, Lacoste etc, but clear his name.How does tribalism make someone steal? How do factions influence someone to pickpocket State funds? Do successionists make someone a thief? He must answer these questions. That Moyo allegedly took money meant for Zimbabwe Development Fund (Zimdef) to purchase motor cycles and bicycles for his constituency proves he does not care about education.Even the Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics programme, he is championing needs to be investigated. It is a good programme in wrong hands.The Cabinet needs cleansing. Mugabe, the man who is supposed to exorcise the corruption demon seems powerless to do anything. The corrupt ministers Mugabe has been unwilling to drop from the Cabinet are his political props helping him to stay in power as long as he wants, thereby making him a willing accomplice in the rampant corruption. By failing to dismiss the corrupt, Mugabe is also corrupt. He has over the years dined and wined with corrupt government ministers in total disregard of his constitutional mandate as long as it helps him retain State leadership.Either Mugabe is too scared of these alleged thieves or he fully condones their action. Almost all his Cabinet ministers have been fingered in one, two or more scandals with Mugabe remaining quiet.Maybe its because he is too dependent on them for his useless long stay in power. Mugabe s failure to address corruption issues devouring State operations is one key reason he must go.As a nation, Zimbabweans wait to see how Mugabe will deal with these mushrooming corruption allegations. If he does nothing then people must start picketing at the offices of corrupt ministers until the President take corrective action.