Businesswomen should support and empower each other in order to help resuscitate the economy, a Zimbabwe National Chamber of Commerce (ZNCC) official has said. BY REJOICE CHINGWARUZNCC deputy chairperson, Divine Ndhlukula (right) congratulates Genesis Travel and Tours chief executive officer, Chiedza Chikomo, who won a ZNCC award in the Service Category of the Women in Enterprise Awards 2016 in Harare on Friday. (Pic: Shepherd Tozvireva)Speaking at the Women in Enterprise Conference and Awards (Weca) organised by ZNCC last Friday, deputy chairperson Divine Ndhlukula implored women to empower each other, which she said was key to eradicating poverty in Zimbabwe. Women should uplift each other in terms of business and one does not lose anything by being a stepping stone for another. We are the key to eradication of poverty and revival of the economy, she said.Television talkshow host, Rebecca Chisamba, who was the guest of honour at the conference, narrated her ordeal in her rise to fame and prosperity. It was hard for me to get to where I am now, but hard work and determination saw me through. My show [Mai Chisamba Show] has been running for 20 years now and I got 24 awards for it, she said.Chisamba urged women to invest in businesses that they were passionate about and work hard for results. In order to make it in business, one has to be passionate and determined. Women constitute more than 50% of the population. Imagine what we can do if we all venture into business, she said.MBCA Bank managing director, Charity Jinya said her organisation will always take part in initiatives that support women in business. At the ceremony, ZNCC presented awards to high achieving women in different business sectors.Rumbidzai Diwa won the Small to Medium Enterprises category, while Margaret Takaedza came tops in the mining category, and the Banking and Finance award went to Constance Mhlanga.The most Outstanding Women Empowerment award went to Esnath Mapondera, a 91-year-old woman, who dedicated most of her life to serving and teaching other women how to succeed in business.