FORMER Zanu PF Mashonaland West provincial chairperson Temba Mliswa has petitioned the High Court, demanding to be urgently furnished with a trial date in a case where he is being sued by two Cabinet ministers, whom he labelled as gay gangsters. BY RICHARD CHIDZAMliswa, who is currently seeking election as independent Norton MP, told NewsDay yesterday that he wrote to the Registrar of the High Court inquiring when the matter would go to trial. It is true we wrote a letter to the Registrar of the High Court in the case in which I am being sued by ministers Jonathan Moyo and Saviour Kasukuwere. You are aware that I called them gays and they took the matter to court. Now it seems they are developing cold feet. I want a trial and that is what I have asked of the court, Mliswa said.In the letter dated September 19, Mliswa said: I refer to the above matter which I paginated my papers in the matter as way back as March 23, 2016. I inquire when the matter will be set down for hearing. I look forward to hearing from you soon. Kasukuwere and Moyo were not immediately available for comment as their mobile phones went unanswered.Mliswa made the allegations shortly before his expulsion from Zanu PF in 2014, where he claimed the ruling party had been hijacked by the United States CIA [Central Intelligence Agency] gay gangsters and singled out Kasukuwere (Zanu PF national political commissar) and Moyo (secretary for science and technology in the politburo) as the chief culprits. He (President Robert Mugabe) is procedural. He has run the party well. He has said to the central committee, You must be at work and hold us accountable . My response is: It s just infiltration in the party . I will prove it, I will take it upon myself and say this is a bunch of gay gangsters. It s a whole crew and we will not allow the party to be run by gay gangsters. I am saying to the President that we can t go to congress with gay gangsters, Mliswa said in October 2014.The same week, Moyo and Kasukuwere s lawyer, Jonathan Samukange, revealed he would be filing papers with the courts suing Mliswa for defaming his clients.Samukange is currently out of the country and could not be reached for comment.Mugabe has not hidden his disdain for homosexuals and at one time, described them as worse than pigs and dogs , but rumours continue to swirl around some of his close aides sexual preferences.