FOLLOWING the El Nino-induced drought which ravaged parts of the country, Rachel Gumbo (38)* and her family were left with no choice, but to survive on a meal a day. BY SOPHIA MAPURANGAThe drought left an estimated 2,8 million Zimbabweans struggling to cope with food insecurity, lack of water and vulnerable to disease.Drought was not a new phenomenon for Gumbo from the Matide area under village head Wilfred Chitsunge in Buhera, so she could absorb the shock.But watching her two-year-old baby girl, Tariro*, wasting away after having been severely malnourished, made her curse the gods over the dry spell, which saw her fail to reap even a single bucket of maize.Sitted on a rag in the company of her older sibling, Tariro chuckled while responding to her mother s smile, obviously unaware of her predicament.The child s stomach was bigger than the rest of her body and it visibly protruded, making the T-shirt she was wearing look like it was borrowed.Tears welled in her mother s eyes as Gumbo lifted her baby from where she was sitting and placed her on her lap. I almost lost her, she said, her voice full of emotion. No one ever thought that she had TB. The nurse at Nyazvivi clinic had indicated that she had malnutrition and that was the reason why she was not growing well. She, however, said Tariro sweated a lot at night and her body was generally weak. I attributed the loss of appetite to our poor diet. We ate sadza and vegetables day in, day out whenever we managed to source mealie meal, said Gumbo, narrating the ripple effects of drought on her family.She told of how it was then very difficult to link her daughter s symptoms to TB. She was not responding to the recommended diet and that is when the doctor suggested more tests, she said.The family had to commit their meagre resources to running more tests. Gumbo said the agony of watching her daughter continue deteriorating due to ill health made her follow the doctor s advice. Since Tariro was not coughing, Gumbo recalled how it was very difficult to collect sputum. I tried every trick in the book, but the sputum would not come out, she said, forcing a smile. The first sputum I collected was thrown away because they said it was just saliva. It took days, until I managed to get it right. According to the Global TB Report 2015, children represent about 11% of all TB cases, with at least one million children falling ill with the disease annually.In 2014 alone, 136 000 children died of TB, translating to nearly 400 children daily, on a global scale. Of these, 81 000 of the TB deaths were among HIV-negative children, while 55 000 TB deaths were recorded among HIV-positive children, the report said.The World Health Organisation (WHO) attributed the high incidence of TB among children to vulnerable immune systems. These included very young ones, HIV-infected or severely malnourished. Any child living in a setting where there are people with infectious TB can become ill with TB, even if they are vaccinated, the report reads in part, adding that malnourished children were at risk of falling ill or dying from TB because their immune systems were weak.WHO also revealed that TB illness in children was often missed or overlooked due to non-specific symptoms and lack of sensitive and child-friendly diagnostic testing.Tariro s diagnosis with TB brought with it fresh challenges. She continued losing weight and even sent tongues wagging in the community. Some of the people openly told me to juice up my baby with anti-retroviral treatment, Gumbo recalled.The stigma and discrimination that she suffered began taking its toll on the single mother, who said she feared disclosing that Tariro had TB because of the disease s relationship with HIV. I assumed that people would think that my child had HIV. At first, I kept this a secret, but it made my situation very difficult, she revealed.Gumbo said she failed to give her daughter TB medicine at the prescribed times every day, since secrecy made her skip some doses.Gumbo said with time, she managed to appreciate that her child s adherence to the TB medicines was a priority which she should not compromise. She then scheduled her daily routine such that she would give her daughter the medicine at the same time. The support I got was from an aunt whose child had also been successfully treated of TB, she said.Gumbo said through her daughter s experience, she had discovered the importance of staying on TB medication until one completes their course. My worst fear is that if I do not give her the medicine as directed, she can then develop another type of TB that is drug resistant, she said.Head of the Aids and Tuberculosis Unit in the Ministry of Health and Child Care, Owen Mugurungi, said childhood TB remained a challenge in Zimbabwe. It is difficult to diagnose, he said, emphasising the importance of capacitating stakeholders involved in providing health care for children and in TB control initiatives.The deputy director for the HIV, Aids and TB programme in the Health ministry, Charles Sandy, said regardless of one s age, the ministry encouraged everyone to go for early diagnosis should they exhibit any signs and symptoms of the disease, some of which include coughing, loss of weight and night sweats. Prophylactic treatment should be provided to those at risk of the disease especially children, he said, adding that once diagnosed with TB, patients on treatment were encouraged to adhere to medication because TB is curable.The Union, an influential global network of 500 experts based in 12 offices and 17 000 members working in 156 countries, reported that childhood TB had been identified as an important cause of morbidity and mortality in children in TB-endemic countries including Zimbabwe.According to the organisation, the burden of child TB infection and disease represents recent and ongoing transmission in communities.It recognised the importance of contact screening and management as strategies that can identify at-risk children who will benefit from preventative strategies while increasing the case detection of TB disease.Union deputy director Ronald Ncube has called on the government and other stakeholders to intensify efforts in TB screening as a strategy to increasing case detection especially in vulnerable communities.He said since Zimbabwe was in the top 30 countries that have a high TB burden, there is need to intensify efforts to find and treat all TB cases if the country is to meet the target of ending TB by 2030.*Not real names