POULTRY producers in Zimbabwe have raised concerns over the presence of suspected imported chicken offals on the market, which may threaten the viability of the local industry. BY MTHANDAZO NYONIZimbabwe Poultry Association chairperson, Solomon Zawe said the presence of imported offals was a concern to the industry, urging relevant authorities to investigate the issue. Concerns have been raised by poultry producers about the presence of suspected imported chicken offals on the market, which may account for the increase of local stocks at abattoirs, he said. Zawe said reports from South Africa noted the increased pressure for more imports of chicken due to the Africa Growth and Opportunity Agreement, which was beginning to adversely affect the poultry industry, as some breeders and production units have scaled down their operations. The reported losses are in the range of R40 million per month by some large poultry operators, he said. Zimbabwean producers fear that this poultry might find its way into the country, and urge authorities to take necessary measures to minimise the dumping of chickens on the local market, he said.Zawe s sentiments come after the industry production tumbled by 8% in the first half of 2016 after producing 37,2 million broiler day-old-chicks compared to the prior year. In his industry update, Zawe cited three major issues affecting demand in the poultry industry and these were shortage of cash, delays in salary payments for civil servants, who form the largest block of formally employed workers in the country, and competition from low-priced beef coming onto the market due to drought-induced destocking.He said the reduced demand was likely to continue exerting pressure on the industry for the rest of the year. Production is being reduced in response to the declining demand and already, there are signs that producers are deflocking and reducing point of lay placements, he said. This is reflected in the drop in demand for layer feed as well as a decline in the price of point of lay pullets. Some breeders have also reduced production of point-of-lays and are selling them for as low as $5 per bird. 