Border Strikers coach Luke Masomere has backed his team to deal a blow to FC Platinum s chances of winning the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League title when the two team clash at Dulivhadzimu Stadium this afternoon. BY FORTUNE MBELEMasomere will be taking charge of the team for the first time in the league having been appointed last week with the mandate of lifting the debutants from the relegation zone.The match pits first versus last on the log and while Masomere acknowledges that they face a very good side, he believes his players can cause an upset. It is not going to be an easy match for either side. I have watched FC Platinum play. They are unstoppable and consistent and in terms of material, I could say they are the national team coming to Beitbridge to play a provincial side. They are coming to Beitbridge for a win, but it will not be easy. The better team on the day will win, he said.With Border Strikers lying 10 points off the safety zone, Masomere admits it will be a tall order if they are to survive, but wants to see them give a fight. The team is in a precarious position and it s not easy taking over a team in that position with only seven matches to go, but I personally feel I can do something. Hopefully, we will survive. I want to work hard to try and make the impossible possible. A lot of things are negative here. No one wants to be associated with a losing team, Masomere said.In today s match they face an FC Platinum side that has won its last three league matches and desperate to continue on that purple patch with Caps United and Highlanders in hot pursuit, one and six points behind respectively.At Dulivhadzimu Stadium, Border Strikers have claimed the scalps of Dynamos, Harare City and Ngezi Platinum, a clear illustration of how difficult a side they can be to beat.In the reverse fixture, FC Platinum enjoyed a stroll in the park with a 3-0 win, but a lot has changed since then.The top-flight league veteran coach, who also worked for Shabanie, Dynamos and How Mine, weighed in with his thoughts on the likely destination of the Premier title.He said the race was too close to predict with the top three teams all in with a good chance.He thinks in the last seven matches more points will be dropped as the bottom teams will be difficult to beat in their fight to avoid the drop. Any of the top three teams can win the league title this year. What will be crucial in the last seven matches is consistency. I think the team that can post at least five wins will take it. But it is not going to be easy because the competition is getting stiffer with the bottom teams fighting relegation and all the other teams fighting for a respectable top-eight finish, Masomere said.FC Platinum rule the roost with 47 points, one above Caps United, with Highlanders nudging behind on 41 points.