First of all, I would like to ask a question: Who controls the Zimbabwe Revenue Authority s (Zimra) internet-based customs clearance system? I believe when the system was first introduced, it was a way of standardising the international customs procedure, of which there is nothing wrong. But now what is wrong is the way this system is working in Zimbabwe, particularly at the revenue section. Concerned citizenSomeone once said: Procrastination is, hands down, our best way of self-sabotage. No, it should be: The system is hands down, our best way of self-sabotage. I don t know if Finance minister Patrick Chinamasa is aware of the delays that are being caused by the Zimra system. I was at Beitbridge Border Post waiting in the queue to pay. I spent more than five hours without moving an inch. When I went to the supervisor to ask what the hold-up was, she told me that there was no system. I asked the supervisor if there was an alternative way for us to be served and she said if the system continued out, she would talk to the shift manager so that they would do it through manual receipts. It really frustrates to look at people who are supposed to be serving being helpless behind the counter and you are standing there trying to be a good citizen, who pays his dues. At the end of the day, the We are here to serve motto loses its meaning because the people saying that are just sitting there looking useless. If it is due to red tape, please find ways of dealing with the issue as we cannot afford to lose more revenue through the system. We are not saying no to technology, but let us take it one step at a time.If we are not in control of the system, then it is better for us to find an alternative until we have established a way to keep the system on for as long as we need it. If the system was put in place to reduce corruption, I can assure you that it is doing more harm than good. For those who are not complaining about the system, I am sure that they have an alternative and I do not think you want to know what the alternative is.