MIGHTY Warriors preparations for the upcoming 12th edition of the Africa Women Cup of Nations (AWCON) are yet to begin, a month before the tournament starts. BY HENRY MHARAZifa have been criticised for their failure to support the team and they are likely to face the same criticism with no preparations going on ahead of the tournament.The Mighty Warriors are the only team, out of the eight, that will participate at the tournament, who are yet to group for camp, exactly four weeks before the tournament kicks off in Cameroon on November 19.Zifa spokesperson, Xolisani Gwesela, yesterday gave a grim picture of the situation. We are working on the camping logistics, but the problem has always been the non-availability of resources. We are mobilising the resources so that we can give the team the best possible preparations. Everything will be clear by Wednesday (tomorrow), he said. Mighty Warriors coach, Shadreck Mlauzi last week raised concern that the team was not receiving the support it deserved.Mlauzi has already submitted his draft squad in the hope that the team would have at least six weeks in camp. Obviously, when things don t work according to plan, we are not happy. We are just keeping our fingers crossed that something will happen. I m hoping that corporates can come to our rescue because sometimes we put too much pressure on the association. We can t put blame on them because of the economic environment, he told NewsDay yesterday. The Mighty Warriors played a hastily-arranged friendly match against Egypt last month, which they won 2-1. However, Mlauzi used a makeshift side after some league teams declined to release their players for national duty.Zimbabwe, who also had shoddy preparations for their Olympic Games debut in August, are in Group A at the AWCON finals together with hosts Cameroon, Egypt and neighbours South Africa. Group B is made up of defending champions Nigeria, Ghana, Mali and Kenya.The Mighty Warriors open their account against South Africa at the Stade Ahmadou Ahidjo in Yaound on November 19 before facing Egypt three days later. They complete their group matches against Cameroon on November 25, with the top two teams proceeding to the semi-finals.