TELONE is aiming for a 40% market share in internet broadband, as its operations are facing stiff competition from social media applications. BY TATIRA ZWINOIRATo aid the company in fighting these applications, TelOne has re-launched its website and unveiled a mobile application.Speaking to NewsDay at the launch of the two platforms, TelOne managing director, Chipo Mtasa said fighting social media applications was a losing battle and innovations were needed to stay in the game. It is a beginning for us, building a foundation for competing with those other platforms. Obviously, we cannot give up and just watch our revenues decline because of the over-the-top services. We are saying that we need to find means and ways of collaborating with them to come up with our own value offering to the market, she said. It is not a way of eliminating them (social media applications) because you will never eliminate them, but we also want to embrace them, but at the same time, coming up with a value position for ourselves. The application and the website are to complement what we are doing to modernise our business. Our market share sits at around 30% in the internet broadband space, but to me, it will be good to go upwards to 40%. TelOne marketing and business development head, Maureen Chirambaguwa said the mobile application and website came as the company s online payment systems were averaging $800 000 per month. This is set to double to $1,6 million per month by December 2016 as customers enjoy multiple access points to it via the website and mobile application, she said.The new application will also feature a directory, locations to TelOne s 200 Wi-Fi spots, and payment systems through VISA, MasterCard, EcoCash and Telecash, among other features.TelOne will also be implementing the first phase of its $98m-backed China Exim Bank loan, which is expected to be completed by Christmas.The first phase will consist of the backbone fibre rollout between Bulawayo and Beitbridge.The modernisation of the core network will provide the voice and broadband service where all the other services will be deployed to modernise TelOne s systems.It is also expected to increase the broadband footprint between Bulawayo and Harare.Phase two is expected to begin sometime during the first quarter of next year.