London Jose Mourinho ripped into his Manchester United flops on Sunday, as they slumped to their third defeat in just eight days. The United manager accused his players of failing to learn the lessons of the Manchester derby defeat and singled out left back Luke Shaw for particular criticism over his role in Camilo Zuniga s crucial second goal. DailyMail I knew I had a task, said Mourinho, who has not suffered three successive competitive defeats since his days as Porto manager in 2002, But the first Man City goal and this second goal, you can find incredible similarity. Kolarov has the ball in a difficult situation in the corner and my player, instead of going up and pressing, decides to give him space. Today, for the second goal, (Nordin) Amrabat on the right side, our left back is 25 metres distance from him, instead of five metres. But even at 25 metres, then you have to jump and go press. But no, we wait. This is a tactical, but also a mental attitude. In a couple of weeks, everything like this becomes perfect. That s my job. Mourinho was also critical of his side s first half performance, admitting that he expected a better response after back-to-back defeats by Manchester City and Feyenoord in the Europa League last Thursday. It was the beginning of the game where they had good chances to score. That was disappointing. We had one with miscommunication between David de Gea and Chris Smalling two big players, experienced players, no communication, go for some ball and there was a rebound for Ighalo. Then the other one, a cross, where Deeney comes in front of Antonio Valencia. The United manager also criticised referee Michael Oliver, claiming that the official missed a foul on Anthony Martial in the lead-up to the opening Watford goal by Etienne Capoue.Mourinho added: The referee s and the linesman s mistake is not under my control. I can t do anything to improve it. In the second half, we were much better, we get the draw (equaliser) and after that, we were the team and (Watford goalkeeper, Heurelho) Gomes makes a phenomenal save and luck is again something we cannot control. We cannot control the referee, we cannot control the lucky moments. Mourinho also highlighted refereeing decisions that denied United a penalty against City and saw his side concede a goal from an offside position against Feyernoord.He said: I can t do anything, I can t change that, it s not under my control. But against City, you know what happened minute 55. Today, the first goal, Feyenoord you know that goal was in an offside position, we are punished by these mistakes. The result leaves United six points behind Pep Guardiola s Manchester City after just five games and on BT Sport, Paul Scholes delivered a stinging critique.The United legend said the team were really, really poor in possession and said goalscorer Marcus Rashford was the only shining light .