THERE was drama at the Bulawayo Magistrates Court on Wednesday when a city businessman took his seven employees to court accusing them of fraud, but refused to be cross-examined by the suspects lawyer, claiming he had presented forged documents to exonerate them. By SILAS NKALABruno Corosella, who owns Plaza Hotel, is accusing his employees Chance Dembaremba (47), Lloyd Samukange (34), David Xaba (43) Menmore Mufandaedza (37), Edward Chekwa (44), Paradzai Midzi (48) and Beauty Mhatitsa (49) of defrauding him of $21 000.The suspects, through their lawyer, Mlweliwenkululeko Ncube, denied the fraud charge when they appeared before Bulawayo magistrate, Charity Maphosa. During cross-examination, Ncube produced Corosella s medical document showing he was admitted at Ingutsheni Mental Hospital when the alleged offence was committed.The document, dated January 5, 2015 and signed by a doctor MT Sadomba at Ingutsheni Hospital, read: This is to certify that the above (Corosella) was under my care from July 27, 2008 to December 2013 for treatment of hypertension and diabetes mellitus . The lawyer was to argue that Corosella was not at his hotel when he alleges his employees stole the money.Drama started when Corosella declined to have a look at the medical report, describing it as fake. I do not know this thing, Mr lawyer you are big liar, you invented this thing. Liar, liar, you Mr lawyer, you are a liar. Do not talk to me, talk to my lawyer, he shouted.The court had to adjourn to allow Corosella s lawyer, Vuyile Mpofu, to advise his client to co-operate and answer questions asked by the defence counsel.When the trial resumed, Corosella appeared more composed, although he claimed he did not understand the lawyer s English and needed an interpreter.He told the court that his employees stole $77 000 and cited Dembaremba as the ring leader. Xaba was booking people without receipts. Midzi would book the people at night and release them early and steal the money, he claimed. Mhatitsa would go home with $100 every day after collecting money from my customers. Ncube interjected and said: You said they stole $77 000 and the State papers say its $21 000, while arbitration says its $8 000, I put it to you that you are just making trumped up charges because you were not there when the alleged fraud occurred. Prosecutor Jeremiah Mutsindikwa said between 2010 and 2013, the seven worked at Plaza Hotel and connived to steal $21 250 by collecting money from clients, who booked rooms. The fraud was discovered by one of the employees, who alerted Corosella. An audit conducted revealed the shortfall leading to their arrest.The magistrate remanded the matter to October 14 for continuation of trial.