OPPOSITION political parties have labelled as hypocritical demands by President Robert Mugabe (pictured) for reforms at the United Nations Security Council, saying the Zanu PF leader should first implement security sector reforms at home before demanding reforms at the UN. BY BLESSED MHLANGAMDC-T spokesperson, Obert Gutu, branded Mugabe as suffering from selective amnesia after the Zanu PF party declined to implement security sector reforms and demilitarise the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission s secretariat to level the political playing field ahead of the 2018 elections.Gutu urged Mugabe to use the same zeal he exhibited in calling for reforms at the UN and implement reforms which were in line with the Constitution. Mugabe has a record of always speaking with a forked tongue saying what he doesn&#8217;t mean and meaning what he doesn&#8217;t say. He has a selective memory and forgets that he is refusing to reform in his own country and the whole world knows that, Gutu said. Before Mugabe can call for reforms of the UN Security Council, he should, first of all, reform his own Zanu PF regime&#8217;s wayward, corrupt and thuggish style of governance. After all, charity begins at home.&#8217;Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) spokesperson, Jacob Mafume, had no kind words for Mugabe. His ministers are saying that you can t reform yourself out of power and it s a bit rich for him to expect any reform by the UN Security Council, Mafume said. The man has no inkling on how hollow and empty his rhetoric sounds. He has exposed himself as a power-hungry despot who does not follow any known democratic rule in dealing with people both in Zanu PF and outside Zanu PF. Zimbabwe People First (ZimPF) spokesperson, Jealousy Mawarire, dismissed Mugabe s speech as high-sounding signifying nothing which nobody would take seriously even if his calls for UN reform could be legitimate. A message is as good as the messenger. He (Mugabe) might have a good message, but it cannot be sent through because he has serious human rights issues here and home, so no matter how much sound he might add to his speech what people get from him is his history, Mawarire said.