THE Zimbabwe Parks and Wildlife Management Authority (Zimparks) has dismissed social media reports that it is beheading wild animals and shipping them to China for sale as trophies. BY BLESSED MHLANGAA rescued wounded lion in a cage.Animal rights activist, Johnny Rodrigues, recently posted a story that has gone viral on social media where he claimed that Zimparks rangers had captured eight lions, four giraffes, eight hyenas and 40 elephants with the intention to ship them to China.Rodrigues further alleged that the captured animals were beheaded so they would be mounted and sold as trophies.In a statement yesterday, Zimparks said the story was false and was only written to tarnish the authority s image. This story is false and seems to have been written only to taint the reputation of the authority ahead of the 17th meeting of the conference of the parties to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (Cites COP 17), the authority said. The only elephants that have been captured will be translocated to Chirisa National Park under the wildlife drought mitigation strategy (2015-2016). The wildlife drought mitigation strategy was approved by Cabinet in January 2016. The primary purpose of these translocations is for conservation through reduced mortalities, due to lack of forage and water in their current habitats. Zimparks said it was working closely with organisations such as the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA) and the Wildlife Veterinary Unit under the Ministry of Agriculture, Mechanisation and Irrigation Development in the process. This collaboration is meant to ensure that the animals are treated well and managed in a manner that protects them from disease outbreaks, the statement read. The translocation exercise is open to property holders with sufficient land to accommodate the affected animals and adequate infrastructure, water, food and security to look after the wildlife. Private ranches and conservancies have also submitted their proposals to the authority for destocking their areas. Rodrigues, in his story, had also said a male member of Cecil s pride had been captured and was ready for export to China.Zimparks said they had, in fact, rescued a snared lion in Tsholotsho in Mlevu village, which was now receiving treatment at Umtshibi.