IN the searing September heat, donkey-drawn carts carrying people and merchandise constitute the only traffic in this gritty road that leads to villages surrounding Rutenga growth point in Mwenezi district near the Beitbridge Border Post. BY TAPIWA ZIVIRATwiggy trees that stand out of the dusty, whitish soil make the most of the vegetation on either side of the road. Once in a while, one comes across huge baobab trees that imposingly stand on the edges of the road as if to provide shade for villagers exhausted by the long distances of over 10km to Rutenga, which is the nearest service centre.Despite this seemingly perfect rural setting, the life of the Mwenezi folk is complex. For a dry and hot district that experiences low annual rainfall, drought is not anything new.Duvai Njovoringo in his garden in MweneziVillagers here rely mostly on agriculture and livestock rearing and to adapt, they have resorted to growing drought-resistant crops like millet and sorghum.This year, however, has been the worst, confirming a Unicef report that described in the season as probably the worst in the past decade. It stated that over 2,8 million families in the country are struggling to cope with food insecurity.Duvai Njovoringo, a father of two and a subsistence farmer from KwaMariot village, said: We have been receiving food aid from government. It has never been enough so we would complement with our own produce. But this year is bad. There is nothing, he said, wiping sweat off his brow, after a temporary break from digging in his garden.His homestead is located about 3km from Rutenga, so he is fortunate enough to have tap water, which gives him a chance to do grow vegetables for sale despite routine cuts.But the money is not enough. I have two children who are supposed to go to school, but have since dropped out because I cannot afford the fees and the other requirements, he said.Several other homesteads are however in a worse off predicament as they have lost their livestock to the drought while grain handouts from the government are not enough to meet their food requirements.Recently there were reports the villagers were eating baboons as a last resort, but NewsDay Weekender could not verify the reports although the hunger situation remains glaring.Mwenezi district administrator, Rosemary Chingwe, recently told a local newspaper that the reports were false as 80 000 villagers are getting food aid.The Ministry of Agriculture last year estimated that Masvingo province lost over 3000 cattle to the drought.With water sources like the Mwenezi River drying up, some villagers travel distances to the pockets where water is still available. Villagers could be seen carting water from the basins of Mwenezi River while livestock trekked to the water hole for a drink. We are sharing water with our cattle, and we pray that the available sources do not dry up before the next rainy season, a villager said.The problems in Mwenezi, however, go beyond food security.With schools placed apart, pupils find themselves walking up to 15km to the nearest school, while health centres are also few such that villagers often have to use carts to ferry the ill over long distances.A 14-year-old Form 2 student at Sacred Heart School in Rutenga, said he walks 10 kilometres to school every day armed with water bottles. Together with fellow pupils, they look exhausted with their bags strapped to their backs and their jerseys hanging over their heads to shield them from the blazing sun.According to Unicef, school authorities in Masvingo reported attendance rates of just below 70% while the national average is almost 90%, and attributed this to the correlation between attendance and the level of food security . With Rutenga located just over 100km from the border with South Africa, and the entire district wrapped around the highway to Beitbridge, some children deterred by the long distances and the hunger drop out of school and eventually cross the border to South Africa.Prostitution and travellers Far from the grime and grunge of the rural homesteads, and under the not-so-bright lights of one of Mwenezi s main centres, Rutenga, the evidence of those escaping from rural poverty for the few opportunities at the centre, is there for all to see.Just as in many growth points around the country, there are flea markets, mobile products stalls, and other small businesses that thrive on the market from the villages, and the cross-border truckers who stop by.Because the border is near, most products on sale in the shops are from South Africa, and the rand is widely accepted here unlike the rest of the country.For a place that is frequented by travellers, prostitution is rife. There are two main lodges or rather, brothels that charge as little as $2 for sex session.NewsDay Weekender witnessed the commotion at one of the lodges where sex workers could be heard telling clients to wait outside, let me finish with this client and come back to you .So thriving is sex work that some prostitutes said they came from other places to settle at Rutenga where there are many clients.One sex workers said she had to entertain over eight men in one night just to pocket $20. For some sex workers, the place is a perfect hideout. Elizabeth s two school-going children, who live with her mother at the Harare family home, have no idea their mother is a sex worker. The family in Harare believes she is Beitbridge buying and selling clothes.Because there are so many travellers who sleep at the place, night club attendants and sex workers work in cahoots to lure these new people. According to one bar-lady, she often gets into discussion with new people who visit her bar. They always end up asking for where they can get sex workers, and I then recommend my friends, she said, before making chilling revelations. My prostitute friends often discuss with me their experiences with the clients I recommend to them, their HIV status and they always tell me that many men demand unprotected sex. 