HOW MINE . . . . . . . . . . .(1)1 HIGHLANDERS . . . . . . . . . (1)1Highlanders win 4-3 on penaltiesHighlanders goalkeeper Ariel Sibanda emerged a penalty shootout hero again to help his side s passage to the semi-finals of the Chibuku Super Cup ahead of How Mine in a match played at Barbourfields Stadium yesterday. BY FORTUNE MBELEThe two teams played a one-all draw in 90 minutes following goals from Simon Munawa after 13 minutes for Bosso, and Godfrey Nguwodzawo for How Mine.The gold miners Kelvin Kaindu pulled out left-back, Qadir Amin for Godfrey Nguwodzawo on the half-hour mark to partner Kudakwashe Musharu and the change paid off for How Mine.Nguwodzawo got the equaliser in the 36th minute connecting an Adolf Muganyi corner-kick to beat Sibanda.The second half had nothing much to write home about, with the two teams creating very little going forward until the final whistle. Highlanders scored their spot-kicks through Munawa, substitute Ralph Matema, Peter Muduhwa and striker Prince Dube.How Mine s Milton, Timothy January and Pasca Manhanga scored.Musharu, however, hit the upright before goalkeeper, Munyaradzi Diya watched Sibanda save his kick to send Bosso through.Highlanders coach, Erol Akbay was pleased with the progress, but not the performance. In cup games, you only get one chance to win or lose. We played well in the first half, but went on the back foot and started to defend than attack and our strikers were not that good, he said. I wanted to win the game in 90 minutes, but penalties are also part of the game. What else can you do? We wait to see who we play in the semi-final and I am looking forward to another win. On the other hand, Kaindu was disappointed to see his team getting knocked out in the penalty lottery. It is unfortunate to lose on penalties and losing to a team that could not even force a corner-kick. We managed to get a goal out of nothing, but what is lacking in my team is consistency. In the second half, it was difficult to play because of the wind. I have always believed in a team that attacks. It is just unfortunate that we did not win, he said.TEAMS: How Mine: M Diya, T Ranthokoane, Q Amini (G Nguwodzawo 30 ), K Chideu, V Kamhuka, M Sakala, A Muganyi (P Manhanga 71 ), M Ncube, K Musharu, T Masuku, H Masuku (T January 57 )Highlanders: A Sibanda, T Ngulube, H Moyo, T Ndlovu, P Muduhwa, D Sibanda (F Chindungwe 29 ), R Kutsanzira, S Munawa, P Dube, A Gahadzikwa (R Matema 63 ), G Nyoni