It was quite heartening that MDC-T leader Morgan Tsvangirai was able to meet with war veterans recently to discuss the wide ranging political and economic challenges bedevilling Zimbabweans. NewsDay EditorWhat this essentially means is that no one is more Zimbabwean than the other. We are all Zimbabweans together and we each have a unique role to play in the development of this great nation. When we bring all our ideas to the table, explore them, interrogate them, discuss them, discard some and adopt others, then we can all make a positive contribution.It is at such forums that problematic issues such as police brutality, corruption and failed economic policies also need to be frankly discussed with the hope of thrashing out a productive way forward. No one person has the magic bullet to pull Zimbabwe from the brink. All our ideas, as different individuals and groups, matter. There is no need to be riding high horses under these circumstances.We owe it to the future generations of this nation to do the right things both on the political and economic fronts. If we found this nation in shape when we took over from the colonisers, we owe it to posterity to hand it over to the next generation even better.Mutual co-operation is not evil. It can be a good thing, actually. The political and economic madness in this country has gone on for too long and cannot be allowed to continue. Zanu PF cannot continue to bury its head in the sand like an ostrich. The writing is clear on the wall. We are stuck in a political and economic logjam and if no concessions are made, then we are on the long road down. The glimmer of hope that we saw during the Government of National Unity can be restored if only politicians can set aside their egos and consider the plight of the people of Zimbabwe.Power cannot be an end in itself, but a means to an end. And clearly, alone, Zanu PF has failed to use its power to pull the country out of the manifold crises, opting to point fingers at others. To a greater extent, the buck stops with them because they are the party in power.