Highlanders . . . . . . . . . . .(1) 2 Mutare City . . . . . . . . . . . . (0) 1 BY FORTUNE MBELEVETERAN striker Ralph Matema rose from the bench to score the winning goal that propelled Highlanders into the quarterfinals of the Chibuku Super Cup after edging visiting Mutare City Rovers at Barbourfields Stadium yesterday.Bosso can continue to dream of a season double as they are still with a good chance of winning the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League championship.An own goal by Mutare City s Munyaradzi Sako earned Highlanders the first goal during the referee s optional time of the first half as he attempted to clear a Prince Dube cross. Mutare City Rovers, however, would not go down easily and came back fighting in the second half with Agrippa Murimba dragging his side back into the contest after benefitting from a Collen Muzavazi pass two minutes after the break.Matema then made a simple tap-in past goalkeeper Philip Nhete from a Dube cross in the 79th minute and it was enough to send his side through to the last eight. The veteran striker had came in for an ineffective Allan Gahadzikwa in 61st minute and made an impact.Bosso coach Erol Akbay was pleased with Matema s contribution. We need that power upfront and in the last three matches he has proven himself well coming from the bench, Akbay said. It is a good win. We played very good football in the first half, which is what I want, although we created many chances, but we could not score. I cannot talk about reaching the final of this cup yet. We will see how we fare in the next round. We made some silly defending mistakes and allowed Mutare to score in the second half, he added.Highlanders dominated Mutare City in the first half but saw three headers from Simon Munawa, Dube and Gahadzikwa miss the target.Mutare City saw some good performances from skipper Chasten Ngondonga, Wonder Sithole and Muzavazi but they could not produce enough to win the match.Coach Taku Shariwa was disappointed with what he termed soft goals conceded by his side. Congratulations to Highlanders. We played well, but we conceded soft goals. We could have scored two or three goals but our supply lines were not good, he said. We were hoping to contain Highlanders in the first minutes of the game then go at them. We were hoping for a smash and grab otherwise we are more worried about surviving relegation in the league at the moment. Winning this one was going to be a bonus. Highlanders could have scored two goals in the second half but right back Tendai Ngulube shot wide seven minutes after the break from a move initiated by playmaker Rahman Kutsanzira involving Munawa.Nhlanhla Ndlovu hit the upright in the 62nd minute and failed to connect the rebound.Teams Highlanders: A Sibanda, T Ngulube, H Moyo, T Ndlovu, P Muduhwa, E Mudzingwa, N Ndlovu (G Nyoni 81 ), A Gahadzikwa (R Matema 61 ), P Dube, R Kutsanzira (K Nadolo 90+2 ), S Munawa Mutare City: P Nhete, B Mukwena, A Murimba, R Madamombe (E Chimhaka 46 ), C Ngondonga, A Nyakabawo (T Chabwana 54 ), W Sithole, M Tapatapa (E Sinaputa 67 ), C Muzavazi, M Sako, B Majamanda