As climate-induced effects begin to be felt on limited water supplies, due to erratic rainfall patterns and dwindling water tables, communities countrywide are not left out and, therefore, bear the brunt of a precious resource that is threatening to leave the world dry and thirsty. GUEST OPINION: PETER MAKWANYAClimate-induced effects begin to be felt by limited water supplies and dwindling water tablesTensions are simmering in various communities in this country as natural water supplies are threatened by the ghost of climate change, especially during this time of the year when people are engaged in small-scale gardening activities in order to sustain their livelihoods. A visit to various parts of the country would unearth silent but not vicious water-based conflicts of communities being at loggerheads as they try to divert the little supplies available, especially from the once reliable rivers, streams and other water sources, channelling the precious resource to their gardens through shallow or man-made canals. Although it is common knowledge that many rivers used to flow perennially in this country but the human hand, in the form of alluvial gold panning, stream bank cultivation and the global effects of climate change have reduced rivers and other water sources to their former selves. As a result, desperate communities and villagers are trying to have a significant footprint on the little reserves available through unorthodox means.Instead of sharing this precious resource sparingly and develop a sustainable water management culture, communities continue to wage silent battles by turning on each other and denying each other equitable supplies of water as they harness the little available water from the few remaining flowing rivers and divert it to their gardens where they store it in small-scale reservoirs for later use. These are unjustified forms of water harvesting scandals that are not in line with principles of sustainability as the they continue to paralyse the natural habitation of the river based ecological systems rendering most of the once viable water sources obsolete. These rivers and streams are part of the remaining viable sources but communities, through water illiteracy management techniques are not being fair on each other as they deny others their right to water access. In rural areas, people from the either side of the rivers or streams have had an unwritten natural rights over these water sources and they have been living side by side for years sharing this precious resource without any problems at all, but nowadays to due to the fact that the supplies are no longer the same, communities are no longer at ease and on speaking terms. These rivers had remained communities sole sources of clean and fresh water supplies for years, but they are prepared to stop sanity from prevailing as communities or families try to smuggle the scarce resource for their self-interests. The once thriving cooperation in the use of the water resources is no longer evident and is being sadly missed. The major undoing about those in authority is that they tend to pay more attention to much bigger conflicts, probably the national ones leaving community or village-based water conflicts to the periphery, ignoring the water-based conflicts for quite some time, while tensions among the down-stream neighbours continue to build-up ready to explode.What makes the problems continue to recur is the fact that, during the rain season the situation would appear a bit normal, only to raise its ugly head when the rain season is over. As such, communities are forced to see it as a passing phase thereby indirectly nursing it, waiting for the vicious cycle to recur. What seems important in this regard is to help communities concerned get rid of selfish tendencies especially during these times when the situation is dire. Although these tensions cannot be described as water war they have managed to strain relations in people who used to share these water sources without any suspicions at all. As the communities continue to deny each other their right and priviledge to water uses, it means that the petty conflicts will continue for some time if they are not managed properly and if sustainable water management education is not instilled in people. What will suffer in the process are not only the human beings but the livestock as well. Although authorities or researchers continue to ignore the micro-scale conflict situations, while continuing to nurse them, they will eventually become big and nasty even at community levels. And the lack of community based violence would not mean that people are not at loggerheads or that relations have not been compromised as people who used to live side by side and being united by the same water sources they are now destroying, are now being divide by the same water sources that once nurtured their relations.Peter Makwanya is a climate change communicator. He writes in his capacity and can be contacted on: petrovmoyt@gmail.com