 Everyone s story includes wins and losses, good days and bad days, highs and lows, surprises and uncertainties. That s life. Life is not about creating a perfect life for you. It s about creating a better life , thunders American leadership coach John C Maxwell. STEVE NYAMBELife is not a wholesome, perfect and prepared product. It is your attitude that will mean a lot in all the life games that you play.Sometimes catastrophe hits you and paralyses your mental spark plugs. You feel useless and no need to get out of your bed and move on. You feel lonely and there is no one who seems to be caring.Don t throw in the towel. Recharge your batteries. Develop the desire and hunger to start afresh. You are not too old to start something new today. You have never failed up to the extent of attaching a psychological failure tag on your forehead. You have got the potential, power, and passion to vie for the honours.Stretch your arms and catch a glimpse of what others did. Colonel Sanders, at the age of retirement that was when he started his flourishing KFC brand. Abraham Lincolin after a series of failures finally landed the United States Presidency in 1861. Hellen Keller became blind and deaf while young. But that did not stop her. She was the first deaf and blind person to earn a Bachelor of Arts degree. It can be done. Don t be an object of mockery. Great things are in waiting. Great people are not as great as some may think. These are just ordinary people who decided to do small things in a great way.Victor E Frankl said: When we are no longer able to change a situation, we are challenged to change ourselves. Remember it is only the unwise who will do the same things over and over again and expect to produce different results. Change the method. Change the formula and the rest will be a pile of history. Don t let the greatness deposited in you die while doing nothing. Let it be clear like the October sky that no one can stop you from achieving your goals. Ah, Lord God! Behold thou has made the heaven and the earth by thy great power and stretched-out arm, there is nothing too hard for thee, says the Book of Jeremiah. If you think you have reached your dead end, just wait a minute because there is light at the end of the dark tunnel. Don t be bundled out, but reclaim your status again. Never forget that: It s not the load that breaks you down, it s how you carry it, articulates Lon Holtz. As the load of your problems approaches you at the life s robot junction, don t park your vehicle, surrender and throw away your keys. Just wait a bit, the robot will soon turn green and you will move while others will be motionless and watching. It s not over until it s over. Catch the bull by the horns and fight. Even when you are bleeding, don t surrender. When knocked down by life s challenges, don t quit. Rise up and try again. There is a Chinese proverb that says: To open a shop is easy, to keep it open is an art. So master the art of this life and keep your shop opened. Be blessed.Steve Nyambe is a motivational speaker and leadership coach; WhatsApp +263 784 583 761/ @stevenyanbe1. Email leadershiptouch@gmail.com