Highlanders . . . . . . . . . . . (2) 3 Bulawayo City . . . . . . . . . . (1) 1HIGHLANDERS completed their seventh win on the trot, dismissing Bulawayo City at Barbourfields Stadium yesterday, as the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League race took another interesting twist. BY FORTUNE MBELEWith the win, Bosso swapped places with FC Platinum to move into second position on the log, while they also cut the gap between them and table toppers Caps United to just one point with three matches remaining.FC Platinum drew 1-1 against Ngezi Platinum on Saturday, while Caps United managed just a point in their match against Dynamos that ended 3-all.Gabriel Nyoni got the first goal for Highlanders in the 20th minute following a howler by goalkeeper Ndodana Sibanda.Sibanda was beaten by the bounce, with the ball looping over him for Nyoni to make a simple finish.Midfielder, Simon Munawa doubled the lead with a powerful shot from close range after benefitting from a build-up that involved Allen Gahadzikwa, Prince Dube and Rahman Kutsanzira.Bulawayo City pulled one back from the spot following a penalty, awarded after Eric Mudzingwa felled Trevor Ndlovu for Xolisani Moyo to take responsibility and halve the deficit.Highlanders dominated the first half, particularly in midfield, where Bulawayo City captain, Moyo had a bad in the office. Munawa could have scored his second on the stroke of halftime but his effort hit the cross bar.Bulawayo City came back a better side in the second half, although the goals eluded them. Highlanders scored their third just before the final whistle through substitute King Nadolo, who exchanged passes with Dube before rolling the ball past Sibanda.Highlanders coach, Erol Akbay was happy that Highlanders scored three goals despite a number of wasted chances. It s a good result. It was very important that we win this one, especially with a two goal difference. It was a tough game though. I was happy to get that goal in the last minute. We are still chasing our dream (for the championship). We will see what will happen when we wake up, he said.Despite yesterday s defeat that leaves them on 35 points, Bulawayo City are confident of a top eight finish with three games to go. We started slowly and we made several mistakes that we could have avoided, coach, Try Ncube said. And there was a lapse of concentration on our side in the second half, as we searched for the equaliser. I am happy with the way we played in the second half. A top eight finish is still very possible. With nine points to play for I think we still have a chance. TeamsHighlanders: A Sibanda, T Ngulube, H Moyo, T Ndlovu, P Muduhwa, E Mudzingwa, R Kutsanzira, S Munawa, P Dube, A Gahadzikwa (R Matema 60;), G Nyoni (N Ndlovu 55 ) K Nadolo 88 )Bulawayo City: N Sibanda, T Majo, B Dube, M Dube, S Ndlovu (T Chimenya 72 ), K Madzongwe, Z Sibanda, X Moyo, M Kadzola, T Ndlovu (E Nkulungo 72 ), W Ndiweni (E Mandiranga 66 )