WORLD Boxing Council (WBC) silver welterweight champion, Charles Manyuchi and his opponent Jose Agustin Julio Feria of Colombia stepped on the scales at the weigh-in at a restaurant in the capital yesterday and then faced off for the cameras, as the pair prepared to clash in a non-title but highly anticipated bout at the Harare International Conference Centre tonight. BY HENRY MHARAJose Agustin Julio Feria of Colombia (left) and Charles Manyuchi during the weigh-in at a restaurant in the capital yesterdayThe eight-round match is the main bout in a total of eight fights that are on the bill, including the WBC international title fight between defending champion, Lolitha Mzeya of Zambia and Malawian boxer, Agness Mtimaukanena.This is the first time the country will be hosting a boxing promotion of such magnitude in the post-independence era and it was not a surprise that the weigh-in drew a sizeable crowd, who crammed the venue to get a glimpse of the boxing superstars.The crowd included WBC bantamweight gold champion, Catherine Phiri of Zambia, match officials and judges.It was Feria (33) who stepped onto the scale first, weighing in at 65,9kg, just below the welterweight division limit of 66,6kg. Crowd favourite Manyuchi (26) weighed 66,4kg, and looked in good shape for the fight, which he is using to prepare for his rematch against Russian Dmitry Mikhaylenko for his WBC silver welterweight mandatory defence in Moscow on November 4. After the weigh-in, Manyuchi and Feria, who both appeared well-focused, came face to face for the long stare-down, as the crowd cheered with cameras flashing. Manyuchi, who has a 19-2-1 record that includes 11 knockouts, has already declared he will teach Feria (21-3-1 including 14 KOs) a lesson. The Colombian, ranked 448 places below his opponent in the world rankings, has promised to cause a major upset. The event promoter, Oriental Quarries Boxing Promotions (OQBP) of Zambia, described the promotion as the start of many similar fights that the country would host in future with four lined up next year. Oriental Quarries is here to stay. In 2017 I can assure the boxing fans that there will be four promotions in this country. We have received massive support from the government through the Ministry of Sports and Recreation, and also the people of Zimbabwe as well as the journalists, OQBP operations director, Chris Malunga said. This is the first time that we are having this promotion in Zimbabwe and I m happy that we have sponsors like Mr T35, who is the official sponsor for Oriental Quarries Boxing Promotions and making this possible, he added.Tickets for the fights, which are expected to start at 6pm, have been pegged at between $5 and $50.