Zimbabwe Cricket (ZC) yesterday unveiled Heath Streak, as the national team coach. BY FORTUNE mbeleNewsDaySport revealed Streak s appointment last week.The former Zimbabwe captain, who signed a two-year contract with ZC, has been tasked with qualifying the national team to the 2019 International Cricket Council (ICC) World Cup, which will be staged in England.Streak fills the void left by Australian Dav Whatmore, who was sacked in June after a string of poor results.Former South Africa fast bowler, Makhaya Ntini presided over the team during India s visit for the limited-overs series and New Zealand for the Test series.Ntini reverts to his position as bowling coach, while fellow South African, Lance Klusener remains the batting coach.The former Bangladesh bowling coach, got the top position ahead of former Zimbabwe all-rounder, Andy Blignaut, and South Africans Justin Summons and Peter Kirsten, who were also interviewed last week.Streak was unveiled at Queens Sports Club yesterday and starts work before Zimbabwe engage Sri Lanka in two Tests, which precede a triangular series that also involves West Indies.Streak promised to improve the team s fortunes in his tenure. I will leave no stone unturned in terms of our endeavour and our quest to improve the team s performances, he said. I believe we have the resources to do that. Planning is going to be a major factor. We do have a lack of cricket and I know ZC are addressing that issue at the moment. I feel that with the upcoming series and the latter half of next year, we have some really good cricket, so we can work towards improving. The former all-rounder heaped praise on the other members of the technical team. I am excited about the current technical team. I would like to thank ZC for this opportunity. For me, it s something that I don t take lightly and I am looking forward to the challenge. I am under no illusion that there are going to be some challenges ahead of us, but that is what sportspeople and athletes enjoy and that is what challenges us to transcribe for our goals. That is my promise to supporters of Zimbabwe cricket and to the current group of players, as well as former players and, hopefully, I can honour that and make sure that we forge ahead and we start seeing improved performances; not just being competitive, but to start winning. ZC board chairman, Tavengwa Mukuhlani hinted that Streak had clinched the job due to his knowledge of the local game. We are not only here to unveil a coach, but to honour a citizen, one of our own, a former player and captain, a person who understands Zimbabwe s circumstances, the national team, the players and ZC as an institution, he said. He has been part of it. He coached them before he went to Bangladesh, where we believe he acquired experience in his coaching career. He has a lot to offer. It is important to have homegrown skills to nurture our young boys. 