RAINBOW Tourism Group (RTG) will exit Mozambique by the end of this month due to poor performance of the unit resulting in the group incurring losses. BY VICTORIA MTOMBAThe exit comes six years after the group entered the market in 2010 under a 10-year lease agreement.The listed hospitality concern widened its loss to $2,9 million for the half year June 30 from a loss of $1,9 million recorded during the same period last year due to the losses from discontinued operations.RTG chief executive officer Tendai Madziwanyika said during the six months ended June 30 2016 the group exited Beitbridge Hotel and Rainbow Hotel Mozambique as the units were loss makers. RTG notified the owners of the property in June, giving a three months notice. Between this year and last year the exchange rate of United States dollars to the metical has depreciated to 1:80 this year from 1:34 and commodity prices have also affected the market. There is instability due to the rebels, he said. The group announced that it will exit the Mozambique market on September 30 2016. Our strategy is to consolidate our units locally and the remaining six hotels are profitable. The process [exiting Mozambique] is consensual and the guys want to keep it as a going concern and they will retain most of their staff because when we came in we retained the old staff as well. There will be a loss when the company exits. Madziwanyika said the group refurbished the hotel and they enjoyed operational profits and they had a fixed rental lease with the group. The group posted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation of $1,1 million compared to $700 000 during the same period last year. Group revenues stood at $11,8 million up by 4% Revenue per available room grew by 3% to $36 from $35 recorded during the same period last year due to higher occupancy levels that outweighed the negative impact of the market-led softening of rates.During the period under review the group retrenched 40 staff members from the head office Rainbow Towers Hotel as part of the cost cutting measures and expects a savings of $1 million.Madziwanyika said the group has not recovered its $1,9 million locked in Capital Bank, which is under voluntary liquidation. We believe the central bank will do something about it as we are repaying the loan from the African Export Import Bank which we never used, he said.Meanwhile, the company said the city hotels registered a slowdown in revenue performance for July and August due to the effects of socio-political disturbances in major towns.