THE European Union delegation and EU heads of mission in Zimbabwe yesterday condemned police for the way they have violently crushed recent demonstrations, saying this was an affront to the Constitution, which guarantees various freedoms including the right to protest. BY STAFF REPORTERRiot police officers beat up an apologetic elderly woman at the main entrance to the Harare Magistrates Court building last week The EU expresses particular concern at the violent conduct by some elements within the Zimbabwe Republic Police (ZRP) in responding to recent protests and demonstrations, the statement said. The freedom to demonstrate and present petitions is enshrined in the Zimbabwean Constitution, along with other fundamental human rights and freedoms, including freedom of expression, assembly and association. These rights must be exercised peacefully and fully respected by the authorities. Any form of violence, including incitement to violence and advocacy of hatred or hate speech, must be condemned by all parties in the strongest possible way. The EU said it was the duty of the police to uphold the Constitution and allow citizens to freely and peacefully express themselves. Police have a duty to facilitate the conduct of undisturbed peaceful demonstrations and petitions. Use of force should only be considered as a last resort and always be proportionate, the statement said. Furthermore, the constitutional right of arrested and detained persons should be fully upheld in all circumstances and the independence of the judiciary respected. The EU fully associates itself with the statement of the Zimbabwe Human Rights Commission on public protests and police conduct and joins its call for the authorities to ensure that the perpetrators of human rights violations are prosecuted. The EU appealed to demonstrators and police to avoid violent confrontations. The EU calls for calm, mutual respect and dialogue by all parties, as well as full respect for the Constitution and the rule of law. The statement, however, is likely to draw the ire of Zimbabwean authorities, who accuse the West of interfering in the country s affairs.Already, authorities claim the US has provided uniforms to people who are not police officers and they were responsible for the violence, not ZRP.