Statesmanship because of its essence of skill and vision in managing public affairs does not occur that often. History does not throw up statesmen with that regularity. It takes a rare breed of leader to become a statesman. echoes: CONWAY TUTANIThe late former President Shimon Peres (left) shakes hands with the late Palestinian leader Yasser ArafatOne such unique individual was former Israeli President Shimon Peres, who stood head and shoulders above others, transcending both eras and -isms in this world of short memory and hateful ideology, in a career spanning nearly 70 years.Peres, who died this week aged 93, was particularly skilful in that he moderated and modernised one -ism zionism the founding belief that Israel is essentially a Jewish State, which had become ultra-nationalistic to push for peaceful co-existence with Palestinians and Arabs. The Palestinians are our closest neighbours. I believe they may become our closest friends, said Peres.Like a true statesman, Peres was unfairly and unjustly accused of having sold out to the Palestinians whereas he was honest and bold enough to acknowledge that Israeli expansionism was pushing out Arabs in the same way Nazi Germany s anti-Semitism had resulted in the pogrom, the organised destruction of an ethnic group. Peres was brave enough to say: Peace with the Palestinians will open ports of peace all around the Mediterranean. The duty of leaders is to pursue freedom ceaselessly, even in the face of hostility, in the face of doubt and disappointment. Just imagine was could be. Another thing: Peres was a self-deprecating person. A self-deprecating person knows his own weaknesses and shortcomings and isn t afraid to point them out, often in a humorous way. We are very bad at seeing our own mistakes, but Peres had this self-deprecating humour which allowed him to put things in perspective. At the other end of the scale are some people who are egotistical such that they are always talking about how great they are. This is with particular reference to some not-so-illustrious, overbearing regime which is lording it over a landlocked country in southern Africa, lying between latitudes15 and 23 S, and longitudes 25 and 34 E, whose leader is given to saying: Ndisu tegatega takasunungura nyika (It s solely us who liberated the country). Or: No one could have run this economy better than me, despite the fact that the country has dollarised after he obliterated its currency. No wonder former British Prime Minister Tony Blair said that somebody was not a pleasure to talk to .Of course, Zanu PF might scream to high heaven that it is anti-Zionism and pro-Palestine as President Robert Mugabe routinely or ritually does at the United Nations General Assembly. And the regime using false -isms will be quick to label anyone who sees just half a positive thing about Israel as a puppet of American imperialism. However, the regime does not think twice about purchasing formidable anti-riot equipment such as the water cannon tanks now a familiar sight on Harare streets being unleashed on peaceful demonstrators, including old and frail war veterans, and hiring shadowy Israeli security firm Nikuv, which is masterful at electronic manipulation, including rigging elections. Peres knew he did not have an answer for everything. That is why he had the magnanimity and sincerity of purpose to sit down in negotiations with the Palestinians. He was aware that you don t negotiate with your friends, but your enemies. He knew when he was at the end of the tether. He was not haunted and driven by psychological insecurity that turns some leaders into dictators. It s very easy to become arrogant and conceited when you are so intellectually gifted, but Peres was in the least that. Yes, no nation deserves to be saddled with jingoistic leaders who, for instance, threaten to pull out of the United Nations when the world body is paying a significant portion of the civil service and virtually single-handedly funding the public health sector, as is happening in a country lying somewhere between the Zambezi and the Limpopo, this not so long after threatening to quit the Southern African Development Community, aka Sadc. This false, empty bravado is in stark contrast to the way Peres treaded carefully. He avoided saying and doing anything that could cause difficulties among neighbours and partners.And you can t keep old age at bay forever, so Peres resigned as President in 2014 aged 91. It s better to leave early than too late, as in Mugabe s case, at 92, with Namibian President Hage Geingob this week the latest to call on him to seriously consider stepping down, this shortly after Botswana President Ian Khama bluntly told him to quit. The crucial difference with Zimbabwe is that the Israeli Presidency is largely ceremonial with executive powers effectively being exercised by the Prime Minister and, thus, not as demanding and poweful post as in Zimbabwe. And, significantly, Israeli Presidents, being conventionally political moderates, counterbalance the often polarising style of Prime Ministers, providing unifying symbolic leadership during times of great political upheaval and controversy. This healthy political culture is what Peres and others have bequeathed to Israel. But this is sadly lacking in Zimbabwe, where there is no one to restrain Mugabe as he is pompously described as the one centre of power ad nauseam and with disastrous consequences such as the raging corruption and repression. He hires and fires at will and starts and blocks investigations as he sees fit. It does seem that Mugabe wants to create a hegemony in an age that long gave up the idea of a supreme leader. Could this be the only government in the region in the 21st century that has renewed totalitarian tendencies?Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas sent a letter of condolence to Peres family expressing (his) sorrow and sadness . Peres was a partner in creating the peace of the brave with the late (Palestinian) President Yasser Arafat and (Israeli) Prime Minister (Yitzhak) Rabin, and made intensive efforts to reach a long-lasting peace &#8230; until his last breath, said Abbas. What a legacy!Conway Nkumbuzo Tutani is a Harare-based columnist. Email: nkumbuzo@gmail.com