AS a believer, you have to be bold and determined. Knowledge of the truth will give you full leverage to enjoy the liberty into which you re called and partake of the joy of salvation. DEVOTION: Erasmus MakarimayiA DNA of a new creation points fatherhood to GodA born-again believer is a new creature who has been delivered from death to life and from the kingdom of darkness (of Satan) to the Kingdom of light (of God). One prevalent error these days is that people seek so called deliverance without slightest desire to be saved. It s not cause for concern if the unsaved seek deliverance.However, when the saved (who are delivered) travel all over the world seeking deliverance , after deliverance then alarm bells ring. If you have never read this column before, please refer to previous pieces for topics on difference between deliverance and casting out devils and other related issues.The Gospel of Christ has to be preached and people saved. If the saved commit to the truth, misconceptions about deliverance and generational curses will be cleared. A born again believer is in Christ. Tracing her/his ancestral line leads us to Christ.There s no one before Christ or in between Christ and new creation. Forensic inquiry into past life of a born again believer will conclude that she/he is innocent.By definition, forensic involves scientific tests or techniques used in connection with the detection of crime. Trying to construct the past record of a believer will give us no criminal record.If a criminal in the natural life gets saved, the new life received is innocent. The natural criminal justice system may convict and sentence her/him but the spiritual justice system will not.2 Corinthians 5:19a aptly puts it: To wit, that God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them. That s the grace of God.If we conduct a forensic of a born-again believer, we will see no record save the blood of Jesus. A born-again believer is a product of the death, burial, resurrection and ascension of Jesus Christ.Jesus said in Matthew 26:28: For this is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins. The blood of Jesus produced the New Testament born-again believer and took away his/her sins. This being is born of spirit and has no business fearing the accusing voice of Satan, the accuser of the brethren, whispering his/her past sins over the shoulder. Jesus, our Redeemer took care of our past.In John 3:6, Jesus said of the believer: That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit. Please enjoy life without fear, guilt or condemnation. The grace of God has taken care of all accusations. It s not your self effort or works; it s unearned, unmerited and undeserved.We, therefore, understand that a born-again believer has no reason submitting to issues that follow natural blood line. A DNA test of new creation points fatherhood to God.The dictionary defines DNA as deoxyribonucleic acid, a self-replicating material present in nearly all living organisms as the main constituent of chromosomes.It is the carrier of genetic information. It s the fundamental and distinctive characteristics or qualities of someone or something, especially when regarded as unchangeable. What this means is that since a believer is a product of the Spirit of God in the blood of Jesus, nothing else can claim paternity.A born-again believer seeking so called deliverance doubts her/his paternity. We re driven to question whether she/he is saved at all. If you re born again your origin and foundation is Christ.Apostle Paul makes us appreciate the reality of a born-again believer better in Ephesians 2:1: And you hath he quickened, who were dead in trespasses and sins. The word quickened means made alive. Before salvation one is dead. Life only comes at salvation. This life is new and is in the blood of Jesus. Please remember life is in the blood.Leviticus 17:11 teaches: For the life of the flesh is in the blood: and I have given it to you upon the altar to make an atonement for your souls: for it is the blood that maketh an atonement for the soul. The life of a born-again believer is in the blood of Jesus not in any other descent. The issue is that the new man (including woman) has to express the reality of this new life in and through the physical or natural person. The natural person has to know the truth for the full expression and manifestation of the new creation to take place. Grace and peace be multiplied to you through knowledge. You re going somewhere.All Bible quotations are from the King James Version. Email: feedback@newsday.co.zw Fellowship with Pastor Makarimayi on Facebook and on www.twitter.com/PEMAKARIMAYI. Telephone +263 712 332 632