SELECTION of the Ndebele king has taken a new twist with the Khumalo clan disputing reports that the Nyamande family will provide the next royal head. BY SILAS NKALAThe clan said Chief Mafu was asked by the Khumalo elders to inform people that the king has been identified in one of Lobengula s eight houses.Khumalo elders committee secretary Phillip Khumalo stormed the Southern Eye newsroom last week saying he wanted to correct misleading reports that the king is from the Nyamande family.It was reported that Chief Mafu told people during the annual King Mzilikazi commemorations that the Nyamande family would provide the next king. I was there at the function, Chief Mafu never said that, Khumalo said. Mafu said the Khumalos sent him to tell the people that the crown king has been identified. People of Mthwakazi had, in 2015 during the same function, asked the Khumalos to provide a king. He said according to the Mthwakazi tradition, the king could be identified among the Mzilikazi, Lobengula or Nkulumane houses. This year the Khumalos agreed that the crown king be identified in Lobengula houses. He is now available, Khumalo said. According to Peter Zwide Kalanga Khumalo, the crown king is in the Nyamande house which is not correct. What is true is that the king will be from among Lobengula s eight houses in which Nyamande is one of them. He added: At the meeting , Khumalo elders committee chairperson Reverend Bruce Khumalo said the Khumalos will go to the Lobengula houses where there is a crown king to advise the families of who is the crown king. Khumalo said the Nyamande family should be patient and wait like all other Lobengula s houses for proper processes to be followed. We are only waiting for Leo Zulukandaba Khumalo to declare the crown king. He is currently in hospital. When he comes the Khumalos will meet him and announce the crown king. So the Nyamande family must just wait. They must not be in a hurry, he said.A spokesperson of King Lobengula Family Trust, Peter Zwide Khumalo had claimed the Lobengula family met and agreed that the royal spear was with the Nyamande family.He said Nyamande was anointed king on June 25, 1896 by a council of chiefs that included Mlugulu Khumalo, Sikhombo Mguni, Babiyana Masuku and Sigombe Mathema. We obviously do not expect that they didn t know what they were doing, Zwide Khumalo said.Lobengula had eight sons Mankisimana, Nyamande, Mhlambi, Sintinga, Njube, Mphezeni, Nguboyenja and Sidojiwe.However, Mankisimana, Mphezeni and Nguboyenja did not have children. So it is the other five houses that are involved in the discussions on the next heir, Khumalo explained.