The Zimbabwe situation is fast approaching a tipping point. Corruption by those in leadership positions continues to bleed the country of its resources, while protests by citizens have become the order of the day. Tapiwa GomoDevelopment of the country has been neglected by those whose responsibility is to implement government programmes. We are a beautiful nation made ugly by our politics. For the citizens, the million-dollar question is: When is the looting going to stop, so that the young generation can be allowed to take the country forward? We are a country with a lot of potential, but we are held hostage by a few people. A few weeks ago, I cautioned that if citizens continue to knock on their leaders doors and if they do not get attention, they will, one day, be tempted to break the door and force entrance. Forced entrance, while prolific, may not be an easy adventure as everything being looted right now is used to fortify the political doors and to be as far as possible from the angry citizens.It also means social and economic development of the country, for which the citizens are protesting, is stifled of its resources. Every dollar earned goes towards protecting those in power from the protesting citizens. It is about their safety over your hunger.All the productive assets have been looted, parcelled out and redistributed based on political allegiance. With the economy emaciated, land remains the only asset used to buy new friends to fortify the political door between the people and their leaders.The counter-protests witnessed in Harare recently are nothing but evidence of that desperation.In addition, the system has demonstrated that it is capable of teargassing its hungry people, instead of feeding them, millions of whom face destitution due to poverty and hunger.About five million of our rural population faces food shortages, as we burn our millions of dollars into teargas. For those in power, their safety is a priority more than anyone else hunger. Their concern is when will the people to stop protesting.Over the past weeks, there has been several efforts to stop protests using all sorts of tactics, including the courts, without any attempts to address problems raised by the people. Our leaders are behaving like that proverbial parent, who abandons a crying baby with the hope that it will stop crying on its own or when it is tired. There is a danger with that approach. When the voices of citizens go silent, there are several possibilities, none of which suggests a positive outcome.It could mean that the citizens are finally tired or have perished of hunger and poverty, hence victory day for the leaders to open the doors and clear their remains.Or it could simply mean that the citizens are finally fed up of trying to communicate with a leadership that has become deaf and stopped caring, so they have adopted a new strategy to get their problems solved by regaining the control of their country back. Whatever the outcome of any of these approaches, what is clear is that either of the parties, the citizens and leadership, will, one day, rue the missed opportunity to talk to each other and address the current impasse in an amicable manner. We will regret the time lost bickering and intellectualising real problems under the rubric of constitutionalism, instead of addressing them.Perhaps, education is our biggest undoing, as every problem is discussed and framed within the confines of law and Constitution. Have we become oblivious of the simple fact that the law was made by and for the people, and not the people for law?A law that protects a few, and yet corrupt leaders, and denies the people their right to survival is not one for the people. Perhaps, it is time we decide and make choices. Can Zimbabwe afford to fight battles in the form of continuous protests and still pursue national development programmes at the same time? Are these two projects pursuable and sustainable at the same time? Can the country develop without a properly paid civil servant?These are tough questions as our situation has been allowed to escalate into life and death. Those in power fear that the day they lose power will mark their demise, while for citizens, the day they stop pushing and protesting is that day more people will face destitution, hunger and death.We can draw lessons from our war veterans, I supposed. During the war for independence, no guerillas built bridges, clinics, schools or ensured safe water and sanitation for the people.History tells us that our war veterans today did not contribute to the Rhodesian economy, and neither were they interested in doing so, unless and until independence was attained. With the limited resources, they stayed focused on one goal and ensured all energy was channelled towards one cause. But once independence was achieved, a new page was opened.Tapiwa Gomo is a development consultant based in Pretoria, South Africa