Greatness is one thing that most people want to attain in their lifetime. The question becomes how does one join the group of influential people? How do we really make a difference in life? To change your life we have to change our mind. To help us demystify the tools to becoming great, I interviewed Mkhululi Ndlovu. SUCCESS LIFE: JONAH NYONINdlovu has emerged as one of the most sought-after thought leaders of our time. He is amongst the leading authorities in understanding and stimulating human potential. Ndlovu has authored books including THE V.I.P, I Dare You V.I.P and Position Of Power. The National Aids Council nominated him as Best Practice in 2015. Moreso, he has appeared in the media such this publication newspaper and Megafest Business Magazine. He now travels around Southern Africa motivating people to a life of Position of Power. Ndlovu is affectionately known as The VIP a code he developed to guide companies, leaders, employees, youths and many institutions to a life rich with vision, integrity and purpose (VIP). I took time to ask him about his concepts and here are the excerpts: JN: You are well known for the VIP series of Books and VIP Motivational talks. What is the quality of a VIP?MK: The incredible quality of a VIP is their ability to win in life, love and finances. It is very much pivotal to note that lacking in any one of these aspects creates discontent in the body, mind and spirit of mankind. Only humans have the quality and the ability to create, design a life and be productive without limits. This can only be possible if you decide to listen to the three voices that trendsetters listen to and deliberately follow to change and upgrade their lives. I give people strategies and techniques to actively listen to the voice of life, love and finances. I believe there is a VIP in everyone seeking for greater life. There is something that wants to live life from the position of power. Dare not to ignore that voice of love in your heart. Love, affection and good feelings are available in the universe and you have your fair share. Start today to take charge of the financial fabric of your life. Increase your value and engage in activities that will strengthen your financial muscle. JN: You have written three books and your latest book Position Of Power alludes to the fact that life is a game. What do you mean by that?MK: The greatest game of all is life. Like all games life has its own rules. Sadly very few of us take the time to learn the rules of life, love and finances yet we expect unlimited wins. Life isn t fair and never will be. Life is hard and up until now the quality of your past or present life has proved that somehow. Not everyone will like you. Few people will like and agree to the idea of you changing your life for the best. Hard as life may seem it is possible to stand out and win. It is possible for people to capture a new vision for their life. It is possible to work hard on their dreams and relationships and make them more meaningful. Life is serious. Life is a serious game that must not be played casually. Love is serious. Finance is serious. All that life requires of us is to make measurable progress in reasonable time. Living with this mind set will make us maintain a position of power as I elaborate in my latest book Position of Power .JN: You have travelled a great deal and spoken on many platforms I am sure you will agree that most people have lost their power. What causes that in your opinion?MK: Most people lose their power because their lives are democracy. I have seen the youngest and the oldest giving up their power. Begin today to take charge of your life. Stop negotiating on your dreams and how you should live your life. Your life is not democracy. People must make personal deliberate and self-fulfilling decisions based on what they want out of life. You are the king of your life. Your life is not democracy. Some other opinions are secondary. Decide now to live life from the position of power. Be aware that you rule and no one has the right to dictate the course of your life. Own your stuff and know that no one is responsible for your life but you. The moment you begin to be comfortable in your own skin and begin to be aware of the true greatness in you your life has begun. Life is your gift from God and how you live it is your gift to God. No one has the right to vote or cast a ballot on how you should live your life. Start living your own life. Have your own life&#8217;s philosophy. Live your life tapping into your unchanging revolutionary greatness. Thus the true position of power we must live by. VIPs Live from the position of power. Let the mentors and people you trust tell you the truth the way they see it. Make sure everything you do is a result of your own conclusion. Be open to other opinions but have the final say on how you live your life. JN: Your recent inspirational piece went viral. Tell us about The University of Stubbornness , what inspired such profound resonating words?MK: The University Of Stubbornness is a peace I wrote for people who want to be great achievers and live life from the position of power. Those who refuse to be denied and are intelligently stubborn. Busisa Moyo inspired such words when I heard him sharing about The faculty of Stubbornness. He spoke with conviction and confidence. I am glad to share it with the rest of the dreamers in the universe. We need more leadership that is intelligently stubborn and vision oriented. This means that companies and institutions won t change their values and principles to fit in the world of people who are positively pessimistic. Hold on to your Africaness and the vision of the future. JN: What do you have to say to people who have lost the drive for success in life?Mk: Whatever happened to the dreams and goals that used to give you a reason for living? What happened to the joy of raising that child, having those parents, looking forward for attaining your education? As a matter of fact what happened to you? What happened to you? Look at your life and how far you have gone. Is this what you really wanted to do with your life? Fall in love with yourself. Treasure yourself there is divinity residing in you. Fall in Love again. Take yourself out if you have to but let the devil know you are in control. You have stored energy in you. Tune in that great power and do exploits and above all you are a V.I.P. Dear V.I.P this is it! Decide your fate. Fall in love again with yourself. Nothing beats self love. Negative energy may threaten you, shameful situations may befall full, opportunities my pass you by but self love will stay against all odds. Hold on to your position of power nothing beats self love fall in love again and live life from a position of power. Don t give up on your dreams you are too precious to lose.JN: Should I be perfect to be great? MK: Nothing makes you look foolish faster more than acting perfect. Magnifying the errors of other people and ignoring your imperfections is deadly sometimes. Don t be perfect but great. Be great at dealing with situations of life as they come. Deal with death of a family member, close friend and sometimes death of a vision wisely. Deal with being broke wisely. We all have made mistakes that have affected our emotional, spiritual, financial and social banks negatively. Greatness acknowledges its personal errors and limitation of life and still recognises greatness in people despite of their imperfections. The true beauty of life is when you exude absolute confidence in your abilities yet being aware of your human limitations. That on its own gives you power and humility in holding the position of power as an individual.Sometimes on your way to living a life of success and significance you meet four kinds of people. These people will try to drag you down and disturb your progress.JN: What s your final word of motivation to those that have lost power? MK: Pain, failure and disappointment are not special gifts reserved for Africans. I love what Jim Rohn said when he boldy proclaimed that For things to change you have to change. We are here to stand as examples to the world, not as exceptions. Nothing lasts in life except God. Let life touch you. Make losing painful and winning joyful. Believe in your gifts, skills and abilities and the universe will work with you in making a positive impact.You are a VIP. Jonah Nyoni is an author, success coach and leadership trainer. He is the author of Inspiration for Success and Success Within Reach. Email: jonah@classicmail.co.za. Twitter @jonahnyoni