GLOBAL Sports Academy rising star Munashe Gatsi is set to leave for trials in England with various football clubs, including Watford and Crystal Palace, at the end of the month. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKAGatsi s trip for his first professional trials has been made possible following a $10 000 donation by CBZ Bank.The donation was handed over by CBZ Holdings group chief executive officer Never Nyemudzo and CBZ group executive marketing and corporate affairs director Laura Gwatiringa in the capital yesterday.The former Kuwadzana 1 High student is set to fly out on September 27 for the trials slated for the first week of October.Speaking to NewsDay on the sidelines of the presentation, Global Sports Africa representative Maria Knife said: Munashe was selected to attend these trials in England mainly due to his playing ability and hardworking approach in the sport. This boy was set to miss the trials which were set up by our partners PFA Academy. Now he will be rubbing shoulders with some of the best players in England who will attend these highly-sought-after club trials. He will be in camp for a week in London. At the trials, top-flight league club scouts will be joined by lower-tier league teams looking for the next star from Africa. The three-day showcase will be hosted at Barnet FC Ground, with clubs such as Crystal Palace FC, Charlton Athletic FC and Watford FC, among others, looking to beef up their senior and junior squads for the upcoming 2016/17 seasonThe GO Football Trial is the most sought after UK talent showcase that exposes upcoming talent to top football clubs in England and Sweden. It is an elite football showcase that offers aspiring players the opportunity to secure UK professional football trials with top clubs in all UK football leagues, ranging from the Premiership, Championship, League One to League Two outfits. Gatsi came through our junior ranks a few years ago and after impressing at our club, we are now sure he will be able to make a mark in England. Some of the clubs coming to watch him are Queens Park Rangers and West Ham United. Such a platform will definitely impact on this young man s life. CBZ Bank played a major role to allow Munashe to travel and participate at these trials, Knife added.Global Sports has developed a number of local players that are currently playing university football in the United States and in Europe, while on the professional clubs platform they have linked players such as Yasser Chapfika, currently playing lower division soccer in Spain, and Rungano Kanyepi, pursuing his career in England.