Productivity stands as the biggest threat to an inclusive economy, a top banker has said. BY BUSINESS REPORTER Speaking at the second edition of theSpace event held last week, Barclays Zimbabwe managing director George Guvamatanga said with the economy growing at 1% annually, it would take three generations to double the standard of living. theSpace is an international platform convened by young people to provide solutions and opportunities for growth and thought processes to current and future challenges. Guvamatanga said the current financial services system was not designed to support the formal economy, adding that the rollout of the financial inclusion plan spearheaded by the central bank would address the deficit of the current system. The reality we should face and accept is that the current financial services system is not designed to support the formal economy. I think we should agree because we always want to pretend that we are because there are financial inclusion goals that are being pursued by the regulators and by government, he said. To change that is now a financial inclusion plan and strategy, which, on paper, looks excellent provided we can implement it. So, there is financing for the youth, women in that plan. But until such a time we implement that financial inclusion plan that is being spearheaded by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe . . . there is no room for the formal sector in the current financial services system. He said the financial inclusion plan becomes critical and its implementation would be of paramount importance if we are to change how we look at funding for the formal sector in Zimbabwe .Guvamatanga said the current education system, which pushes everyone to attain a university degree at a time when formal employment was dwindling, militated against productivity.He said there was need to invest in vocational training and polytechnical colleges, which breed artisans, who can be accommodated in an informal economy. We have an education system pushing everyone to attain a degree so as to have a white collar job, which is not existent, he said.Trust Africa executive director Tendai Murisa said in order to have an inclusive economy, the tax regime must not be punitive, particularly on small-to-medium enterprises.European Union Ambassador to Zimbabwe, Philippe van Damme, said inequality figures in Zimbabwe were lower in the region, adding that the figures were underestimated because there were several issues which are not captured in the survey.To address inequality, he said, there was need to fight impunity, ensure transparency and accountability, create conducive investment climate and have an independent Judiciary and observance of rule of law.Last week s event was held under the theme Where Opportunity Meets Talent.