THIS year s editions of the Jerusarema/Mbende Festival and the Mashonaland East Cultural Festival (MECUF) will run concurrently, with the two popular events set for October 28 in Murewa and other towns in Mashonaland East Province. BY staff reporterMECUF was the brainchild of the late Chief Jonathan Mangwende, who said the event that used to focus on Murewa and Uzumba areas will cement the festival s status, as the shining beacon of the province.Event organiser, Cuthbert Maziwa yesterday said they had decided to merge the two festivals in order to make the event bigger. He said the event will now run for a week in some towns across the province. This year, we decided that the two festivals run concurrently. This was the case before we split them due to a number of reasons, but we have merged them again for it to be bigger and better. On October 28, all roads will lead to Murewa Culture Centre for a three day arts festival that includes Jerusarema/Mbende festival. Other exhibitions and arts disciplines will be taking place in Mutoko as well, Maziwa said.He said the festival will be wrapped up in Marondera, where a number of activities will take place. We will ensure that the festival is being held in at least three areas across the province. This was the late Chief Mangwende s dream. The event will run for a whole week. Preparations have begun and the response from various stakeholders is overwhelming, Maziwa said.In previous years, MECUF has attracted thousands of arts and culture lovers, with artistes also grabbing the opportunity to market themselves.The festival consists of stone exhibitions, traditional dance, modelling among others.MECUF was founded in 2010 to fulfil Mangwende s desire to have unified, promotion and celebration of the rich artistic and cultural heritage of his area in Murewa and Uzumba, before turning onto a provincial fiesta in 2012.Jerusarema/Mbende Festival is sponsored by United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (Unesco) and supported by National Arts Council of Zimbabwe. In 2005, Unesco awarded Mbende heritage status and it became part of Unesco s Masterpiece of the Oral and Intangible Heritage.