BORDER STRIKERS . . . . . . . . . . 0 FC PLATINUM . . . . . . . . . . . . .0 Castle Lager Premier Soccer League log leaders FC Platinum were frustrated into a draw by basement side Border Strikers in a match played at Dulivhadzimo Stadium yesterday. by own correspondentFC Platinum came into the match desperate for three points as they race second-placed Caps United and Highlanders for the league title.Coach Norman Mapeza was left disappointed with his team s poor finishing despite fashioning out good chances.It was by no means a one-way flow of traffic with the home side giving as much as they were getting, but also being let down by their strikers.It was Border Strikers, now under the guidance of Luke Masomere, who could have taken the lead, but Clever Matendebvure struck the goal s frame.Matendebvure tested goalkeeper Petros Mhari once again and Mapeza responded by making a first-half switch, hauling off Hillary Bakacheza and introducing Ishmael Wadi.The move changed the complexion of the match and FC Platinum took the game to Border Strikers, but were met by a rock-solid defence marshalled by the hosts skipper Michael Varriso and Talent Sande in goals.On the counter, Munyaradzi Chirape, Hughes Chikosa and Mutendebvure gave the visitors a torrid time, but poor finishing was their undoing.Border Strikers were denied what seemed a deserved penalty on 80 minutes when goal-bound Matendebvure was hacked from behind in the box, but referee Nkosana Nduna waved the game on.FC Platinum strikers Walter Musona, Raphael Muduviwa and substitute Brian Muzondiwa all with clear-cut chances failed to beat Sande even in one-on-one situations.Mapeza blamed his charges for failing to convert chances. In matches like this we should bury half chances, but my players failed to come to the party. We should have won in the first half, Mapeza said.He blamed the distance to Beitbridge, but also admitted Border Strikers were unyielding: They attacked us and a team fighting relegation is tough. 