Caps United . . . . . . . . .(0) (3) Dynamos . . . . . . . . . . . (1) (3) BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKACAPS United defender Dennis Dauda scored a late brace to help the Green Machine secure a crucial point in one of the greatest comeback stories in local football in an exhilarating six-goal Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match at the National Sports Stadium yesterday.The Green Machine had looked dead and buried after Dynamos raced into the lead on seven minutes through striker, Rodreck Mutuma, before further goals from Masimba Mambare and second half substitute, Tawanda Macheke. With four minutes to fulltime, Caps United were 3-nil down yet when the final whistle went, the score line was 3-all.The comeback was started and completed by defender, Dennis Dauda with two headers, both at the end of set pieces, although the last goal could have been helped in by a Dynamos player.Amon Kambanje scored Caps second goal on 88 minutes, which gave the Green Machine family hope and belief.After that goal, all eyes were on the fourth official Nomore Musundire to see how many minutes referee, Ruzive Ruzive was going to add.Three minutes it was and it was enough for more drama and another goal. After the third goal, Caps could have clinched all three points, but Ronald Pfumbidzai directed his header over the bar, with the last piece of action of the match.It was a breath-taking game and Dynamos players and their fans could still be wondering how they threw away such a strong lead.With Caps United firmly focused of the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League championship, it looked like Dynamos would ruin that dream.Mutuma got onto the scoresheet after Caps United goalkeeper Brighton Muchambo failed to deal with a Brett Amidu shot.Caps United enjoyed a lot of the possession, but Dynamos were more effective.Simba Nhivi came close on 33 minutes, only for his effort to be saved by impressive goalkeeper, Ashley Reyners after pouncing on a rebound after Tafadzwa Rusike s effort crashed against the post. Dynamos doubled their lead in the second half, with Mambare chipping the ball over the goal keeper on 59 minutes following a set up by Amidu.Caps United coach, Lloyd Chitembwe, missing the services of leading top goal scorer, Leonard Tsipa responded by pulling out Abbas Amidu, replacing him with Kambanje and Kudzanai Nyamupfukudza, who came in for Devon Chafa on 71 minutes. Barely two minutes, after the changes, Macheke popped up with the third, a simple tap-in from a Mambare cross to silence the Caps United faithful. Dynamos finished the match without their assistant coach, Murape Murape, who was sent off for gestures he made at the Caps United technical bench.To their credit, the Green Machine, like serious championship contenders, soaked all the pressure to claw back into the game. When Chitembwe introduced Moses Muchenje on 80 minutes, the game turned on its head. Lloyd Mutasa also made some changes, pulling out Stephen Alimenda and replacing him with Wisdom Mutasa and with Valentine Ndaba also coming in for Takunda Sadiki. Six minutes after the changes, defender Dauda headed home a rebound from a Dominic Chungwa s effort to reduce the arrears.Kambanje then added the second heading home at the back post on 88 minutes, before Dauda leapt highest to plant a firm header into the nets off a well taken corner kick by Ronald Pfumbidzai to trigger wild celebrations in the bay housing the Caps United fans.A Dynamos player had the last touch of the ball, seemingly heading it into his goal, although officials credited the goal to Dauda.At this point, the Green Machine were all over their opponents, launching wave after wave of attack on their opponents goal and came close to sewing up the contest in referee s additional time, but Pfumbidzai missed a headed opportunity.As the referee blew to end the match, there was a mass of celebrating bodies on the pitch, including club president, Farai Jere, who congratulated his team for a job well done. Chitembwe though said his charges were poor for the better part of the match, but was happy with the point gained. We were very poor for the better part of the match, Chitembwe said. We didn t come to the party until the last 15 minutes of the match, I thought we were overawed by the occasion. Before the match I had told the players we didn t need to play to the occasion but unfortunately we appeared to play to the occasion, but naturally, I am happy with the point. His counterpart, Mutasa cut a dejected figure after the match. He blamed his charges for not playing according to instructions. As a coach, I am really disappointed with some of the players. We conceded silly goals. I had told them to mark at the blind post, but they didn t follow instructions, Mutasa said.