GOVERNMENT has launched the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) for Zimbabwe, which requires $2,7 billion to implement in the period 2016 to 2018. BY VICTORIA MTOMBAInterim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) consultant, Jesimen Chipika, presenting the final copy at a local hotel in Harare yesterdaySpeaking at the launch of the document yesterday, Finance minister Patrick Chinamasa said government and development organisations have secured $800 million so far for the implementation of the I-PRSP, leaving a funding gap of $1,9 billion.He said the $1,9 billion would be mobilised through the budget and other domestic savings and the private sector. Any piecemeal approach will not work. This strategy for 2016-2018 is a precursor to the full strategy over approximately five years for sustained poverty eradication, he said.Chinamasa said the social sector was one of the major illnesses of the economy, evident through unemployment and shortage of drugs in hospitals. The voice was that if you sort out the agriculture problem you will have attended to the other issues. The common outcome throughout the consultation was agriculture is the backbone of the economy, he said. On our part for the 2016/17 agricultural season we are putting our money where our mouth is. Already the government secured more than $423 million towards supporting the 2016/2017 agricultural season and the objective is to be self-sufficient in food security in the event that the heavens smile on us and give us normal rains this season. Chinamasa said if government does not get revenues, it would not be able to carry some of its programmes hence the need to have a fat and healthier private sector and a thin public sector.He said the paper would be used by government to source funding from the World Bank after clearing the arrears. The national consultant for I-PRSP, Jesimen Chipika said the consultation on strategy began in March this year and was linked to the Zimbabwe Agenda for Sustainable Socio Economic Transformation, President Robert Mugabe s 10 point plan and the Sustainable Development Goals.She said the paper seeks to eradicate poverty and ensures inclusive growth, improvement in the livelihoods of citizens. Chipika said the economy need to grow at 7% growth rates, receive normal rainfall and continue to use the multicurrency system.The strategy paper is anchored on seven pillars that include, agriculture productivity, social sectors, private sector, infrastructure sector, environment and climate change, gender women and youth development and strengthening governance.