RECENTLY, there was a public controversy about physical punishment for schoolchildren. The teaching profession, school inspectors, senior teachers and headmasters want it to go. It is no longer considered politically [and educationally] correct . Guest Column: FR OSKAR WERMTER SJMany countries have outlawed it, even though there are regions where discipline is so bad that classroom teachers still want it and still apply it as a strategy of self-defence. Some women teachers demand that head teachers should keep it as a last resort to protect them from aggressive bully boys . What do we do when we beat a child? We seem to think that we merely beat the body, inflict pain on the outer frame, without touching the inner person. Not so. Body and soul, the outer frame and the inner person are one. Beat a child and you hit a person, however small. If you give a naughty little child a light clap, it screams to high heaven and won t stop. How come? Surely that clap does not hurt that much? Physically maybe not. What, however, hurts badly and causes a maybe deep wound is the withdrawal of love and of the usual affection and tenderness. Suddenly, the little one is no longer surrounded by kindness and loving attention, but by hostility, even cruelty. Reason enough to show despair and despondency. Suddenly the world is wrapped up in dark and threatening clouds, and the child feels cut off and isolated where there was warmth and comfort a moment ago. Every blow shatters part of the humanity and personhood of the victim of violence. That applies to children who have not yet acquired any resistance to the crushing force of physical punishment. They emerge from violence less human and retarded in their growth, maybe even infected by a still hidden virus of hatred and revenge. Every human being has the dignity of being God s creature. Every one of us was designed and moulded according to a divine plan and vision, every living person was put into this world enjoying integrity and wholeness. The health and soundness, the integrity and wholeness of the body reflect the integrity and wholeness of the mind. Now a change of scene: a brutal , hate-filled executioner of the State in heavy boots and armed to inflict excruciating pain crushes and humiliates a fellow citizen, reduces him or her to tears, blood and pain, writhing in the dust. Civilians, in frustration about injustice suffered, may act provocatively towards the uniformed forces and rouse the anger of the State security agents. Fire kindles fire. However, that is no excuse for professionally trained police to lose self-control and lash out cruelly against civilians, their own fellow citizens whom they must protect in a peaceful environment. Members of the forces of law and order (police, army) and the people whose life they have to protect are all equal citizens and enjoy their common citizenship. The Constitution (2013) gives them all the same respect because from them the authority to govern is derived (Const 3f). In other words, if a police officer is beating and injuring a citizen he/she is beating up and humiliating his/her employer. The source of all authority is free elections. The people of this country, by electing leaders, subdelegate their own authority as owners of the country to those leaders. By themselves, they are nothing and have no authority or power. This is the law. Unfortunately, it is not always the political reality. The freedom fighters base their power and authority on their victory in the war. They feel, regardless of elections, that they are entitled to rule because in their eyes the country is theirs as a matter of conquest. Anyone who insists on democratic credentials is seen as a traitor of the revolution.This causes a split in our minds: only fellow fighters are friends, the rest are foes. But what we need, in line with our Constitution, is a concept of universal and equal citizenship. And any citizen must enjoy the respect of all of us. His/her integrity as a person, a human being, ultimately as a child of God must be highly regarded. My neighbour who votes for another party or leader is still a fellow citizen. We are companions on the same road, workers on the same building site, even if we disagree on details of the policies to be adopted. The whole of Africa is agreed that each person has the right to respect for his/her dignity and legal status. No form of exploitation or degradation is allowed, especially not slavery, torture, inhuman or degrading punishment and treatment. (The African Charter on Human and Peoples Rights The Banjul Charter, article 5). As a nation, through our Constitution which was accepted by the majority of voters in 2013, we recognise the inherent dignity and worth of each human being (Const 3e).If we are serious about this, we have to retrain our forces of law and order, prison warders and the military. Maybe being armed with guns, truncheons, teargas canisters, water cannons and heavy boots is not giving the servants of the State the necessary fair-mindedness in their dealings with civilians. Such tools of the trade seem to have been made to destroy persons, not to protect them. Police cells, where people are kept without having been charged and are exposed to wanton cruelty and sadism, seem to be designed to humiliate and crush them physically and psychologically. The African Charter bans torture. The Constitution states clearly and unambiguously, All Zimbabwean citizens are entitled . . . to the protection of the State wherever they may be. (Const 35 a)Children need the protection of their elders, girl children against sugar daddies , against human traffickers, exploitation by slave drivers. Despite so much progress women have made as leaders with growing responsibility, domestic violence is still a scourge, humiliating our sisters and mothers. Every war is a monster that gobbles up human beings as cannon fodder. Domestic warfare between a violent husband and a resentful wife is no different. Wars are useless, wasteful ventures. There is no other way out: in the end the antagonists that includes men and women have to talk with open minds. Rape is on the increase. Human trafficking is supplying sex slaves to the sex industry . Look at the statistics, especially in war-torn countries. It is retrogressive and will not build the new society of free citizens that we want. Human beings were created with free will and the power to decide for themselves over their lives. Any threat or intimidation used against persons to force them to do what they abhor and reject as inhuman and against their personal dignity as free citizens, is to be avoided. Are the servants of the State and our servants aware of that? Or have they lost their own inner freedom already and, therefore, cannot appreciate the freedom of others?A young boy seeing his mother being abused by his father may become a wife-beater himself. Something in his heart, like reverence for creation and admiration for kind and loving friends and relatives, has been broken and may be lost for ever. Such a broken person may think nothing of breaking other people, though they are fellow citizens with rights and duties. The real liberation comes, not from the gun, truncheon and teargas, but from mutual respect for the integrity and wholeness of all God s children.Fr Oskar Wermter SJ is a social commentator. He writes in his own capacity.