The birth of new things is as painful as discarding or getting rid of old ones. The process of ushering in new things is painful and requires perseverance and dedication. Develop me: Tapiwa GomoThe loss of or discarding old things is often hard to accept due to the emotional attachment or resentment created over time. Perhaps these are some of the scenarios that have made some writers to characterise our situation as an evolution and not a revolution. What else can one say, when the battle lines are drawn between a system led largely by 70 to 90-year-old people and an emerging citizen movement led by 20 to 40-year-olds.But there is one glaring question that most people have evaded on how this evolution is occurring.Evolution is often a natural process, where new generations take over from the naturally-phasing-out older ones. Does that mean the people have suspended their revolutionary efforts and submitted to nature to take its course? If that is the case, then such victory will be without winners, but inheritors.Looking at the current political dynamics, there is a certain naivet that the next elections will be a turning point, ushering change in Zimbabwe.And this assumption is often used to justify voter mobilisation, including encouraging those in the Diaspora to come and vote. Victory will come when more people vote, they assume.Curiously, the people, who have been at the forefront of stressing this point, are former and yet so recently rejected and ejected Zanu PF youth leaders.They don t have the experience of having an election stolen from under their noses.They gullibly view elections as an objective and academic process, which can be scientifically proven.Perhaps, they were on the sidelines when they were in Zanu PF. Or perhaps, they are not aware that the current numbers are enough to cause change. There are two phenomena that are pretty clear in our not-so-distant future.The first one is that change is definitely coming, but what we don t know is how it will occur, as we have all become spectators to the succession drama in Zanu PF. The takeover may be from within Zanu PF or elsewhere, but what is relevant at this stage is to assess what options exist both inside Zanu PF and elsewhere.The lack of a succession plan in Zanu PF may be an opportunity to influence the choice of who succeeds and not limit the choices to G40 and the Lacoste.A future without Zanu PF is ideal, but maybe impossible.In addition, watching the situation evolving in Zanu PF from the sidelines is as risky as it is to bank on the next elections for change.This leads to my second point.The second phenomenon is that no matter how much numbers opposition parties garner for the 2018 elections, the outcomes of those elections are not going to be different from previous ones. There are several reasons to sustain this point.The major problems with elections in Africa is that they are not about people s choices, but about numbers presented by those managing the process.These are often appointed by the system.He who is in charge of collecting, counting votes and managing the electoral process determines the winner than the one who votes.African politicians in power have learnt the simple art that elections are about pleasing the international community by giving out numbers even if they do not reflect the people s choices.African governments conduct elections to please the international community and it s not about good governance and the people.The other reason is that the system in our country has so much to lose from an election loss.This includes their own lives. We have so many examples of ministers who died soon after being thrown out of government and the ruling party.And today, the people, who have been at the forefront of pillaging national resources have amassed obscenely colossal amounts of wealth such that it has become too risky for them to allow a Zanu PF loss.Personal resources will be injected and invested to ensure they remain in power and retain their looted wealth and the power to continue to do so.While the succession drama may suggest a troubled party, the fact of the matter is that the system is stronger now to handle and win an election than ever before. Money will be everything given that poverty has become the currency for political manipulation.Money will sustain brutal violence and cow people into submission.The unemployed youth, some of whom are protesting today, will be employed and paid to instill fear among the people.Violence will be a source of employment and income. This is not new. Money will be used to buy votes and to rig the system. And this is not new either.Money will decide the outcome of the next election, not the people s choice. And, as usual, the opposition will be sent to their usual post-elections parking lots; the court and the international community.They will appeal the results and argue that elections were not free and fair, even though they are aware that such approaches are yet to yield any results or overturn major results in Africa.They will fly around the globe mobilising the international community, but we know that that too has not caused any change in any African country. What then can be done differently? I don t know. All I know is change is coming. Tapiwa Gomo is a development consultant based in Pretoria, South Africa