RELEGATION-THREATENED Tsholotsho FC plot to pile misery on falling giants Dynamos when the two teams clash in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League tie at Rufaro Stadium tomorrow. BY FORTUNE MBELEAfter their Chibuku Super Cup first round success against Caps United, the relegation-bound Bulawayo-based club now aims for league success in their bid to beat the drop.Tsholotsho beat the Green Machine 5-4 in a penalty shootout at the National Sports Stadium on Saturday to advance to the quarter-finals of the competition.They shift focus to the league campaign, where they have won their last two matches against How Mine and Border Strikers with coach Lizwe Sweswe looking to build on the momentum gained from those positive results.With Dynamos seemingly playing with the handbrake on, Tsholotsho will look to take advantage of the situation as pressure mounts on the technical team led by Lloyd Mutasa. Morale is high in camp and the three wins have boosted our confidence. But there is a tendency to be over-excited, so we are trying to work against complacency, Sweswe said. We need to win all our remaining matches if we are to survive relegation and not depend on other teams to do it for us and I think it is very possible. He said the Glamour Boys might be under pressure to win tomorrow following two defeats to Highlanders (in a league match) and How Mine in the Chibuku Super Cup first round on Sunday, but that would work to Tsholotsho s advantage. Dynamos are a big club and you cannot just brush them aside because of two defeats. They are a team that can rise against odds any time. They want a win and they will come out strong at us. But it is good for us that they are under pressure. We will try to contain them. I am looking at getting another win on Wednesday (tomorrow). Tsholotsho pin their hopes on former Zesco United defender Zimiseleni Moyo, who has been a pillar for the outfit playing at the base of the midfield.Ocient Ncube, Nixon Gama, Mustapha Ponyera and former Dynamos defender George Magariro have also been playing well for the side and carry the team s hopes.Tsholotsho sit on position 15 on the log table with 19 points, six above bottom-placed Border Strikers and just a point behind Mutare City Rovers, who play Chicken Inn at White City on Thursday.Border Strikers host log leaders FC Platinum tomorrow at Dulivhadzimu Stadium where they are quite difficult to beat.Fixtures Tomorrow: Ngezi Platinum v Chapungu (Baobab), ZPC Kariba v Caps United (Nyamhunga), Border Strikers v FC Platinum (Dulivhadzimu), Bulawayo City v Triangle (Barbourfields), Dynamos v Tsholotsho (Rufaro)Thursday: Chicken Inn v Mutare City Rovers (White City), Harare City v Highlanders (Rufaro), How Mine v Hwange (Luveve)