A MATABELELAND South miner, Trynos Nkomo, has filed an urgent chamber application at the High Court in Bulawayo seeking an order to evict top senior police officers, accusing them of invading and illegally extracting gold from his claims. BY SILAS NKALAIn his application filed on September 9, Nkomo accused Sifanjani Moyo of invading his mine and also cited provincial mining director, police officer-in-charge Criminal Investigations Department Minerals Gwanda and officer-in-charge West Nicholson, as respondents.Moyo filed opposing papers on Monday.Nkomo said he was a holder of a prospecting licence number 483808J, which was registered by the West Nicholson Olympus Block. On September 7, 2016, the first respondent (Moyo) . . . leader in a company of some gold panners, mined gold ore and loaded them into four trucks, he submitted. The applicant (Nkomo) reported the matter to West Nicholson police on September 17. Nkomo accused the police and mining director of refusing to evict the alleged mine invaders. Justice will lose its grip and control on unscrupulous citizens of this beloved country. Law and order is under threat in this country in mining areas. If the courts do not come to my rescue, this will spread like gangrene, he said.In his opposition, Moyo urged the court to dismiss the application on the grounds that it was based on falsehoods. I am cited as an individual involved in mining activities in the claims. I am not carrying out any activities on the alleged claims in my personal capacity. The exploration is being done by a syndicate known as Sixo Mining Syndicate, Moyo said, adding the syndicate was made up of himself and the owner of the land identified as Sixo Mining Syndicate.Moyo also accused Nkomo of clandestinely pegging part of the area and registering it in his name. He also said during exploration, they extracted 4,4 kilogrammes of gold, which Nkomo took to Fidelity Printers to sell after they had provided transport.Moyo said they had agreed that Nkomo would retain 30% from the sale and give them 70%, but instead, he gave them $50 000 and kept $97 000 to himself. He is the one attempting to rob us using the courts, he said.