THE media industry in Zimbabwe must create a vibrant digital presence to survive in a digital economy and society, vice-president of China Radio and Television Network Zeng Qingjun has said. WISDOM MDZUNGAIRI IN BEIJINGZeng said the transformation of traditional media would help to scale content creation, storage and delivery while reducing capital investment in information technology by aligning infrastructure costs with production volumes and integrate in the face of new media challenges. Globally, traditional media is facing challenges resulting in reduced copy sales for print media, while TV is contending with reduced viewers. Therefore, this raises a strong case for Zimbabwe and other African countries to come up with strategies that will allow media players to remain afloat, he said. Media players should come up with strategies for the future development of traditional media. In our case (China), we ve had to converge operations for radio and TV to increase profits. We ve also had to rationalise our staff with a view to maximising on profits for our entities. Zeng, who was speaking in an interview on the sidelines of a journalists and editors seminar in Beijing yesterday, also said the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) had met to discuss the future of 5G and it all sounded very promising as it could be up and running come 2020. The ITU is keen for the communications future, noting it s an important step for mobile communications as it would help to create a smart, networked communications environment. This means globally consumer internet video traffic will grow beyond 80% of consumer internet traffic in 2019, up from 64% in 2014. Internet video traffic will grow four-fold from 2914-2019, he said.Zeng said it was time for the media to prepare for a world in which video would no longer be flat.Chinese Research and Training Institute of the Communications State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television vice-president, Liu Ying added that social networking was one of the most popular online activities, with high user engagement rates and expanding mobile possibilities. Social networks not only enable users to communicate beyond local or social boundaries, but also offer possibilities to share user-generated content like photos and videos and features such as social games, Ying said. Social advertising, mobile news and social gaming are major points of revenue for social networks. Television is no longer the only game in town for distributing and watching video. The internet and the social web have provided content creators and advertisers with a cost-effective way to distribute video. China Radio International deputy director, Guan Juan Juan urged media players to embrace everything that could aid the industry to prosper.