STAKEHOLDERS in the modelling sector have accused Miss Zimbabwe Trust, the local licence holders of Miss World pageant, of taking the nation for a ride, as Zimbabwe will not be participating at the forthcoming 66th edition of Miss World pageant set for December 20 in the United States. BY WINSTONE ANTONIOIn a statement, the beauty pageant s spokesperson, Tendai Chirau, said the decision to cancel the pageant was reached after the trust failed to get the requisite number of models to contest to replace the incumbent Annie-Grace Mutambu during scouting done over eight months. Miss Zimbabwe Trust would like to inform its stakeholders and the generality of Zimbabweans that it will not be holding the 2016 edition of Miss World Zimbabwe. The trust will hold the next pageant in 2017 and the 13 aspiring queens, who were shortlisted during the scouting process, have an automatic entry for the 2017 pageant, part of the statement read.The failure by the Marry Chiwenga-led trust to host this year s edition of the country s flagship has been received with mixed feelings by stakeholders. Former model and founder of Zim Gossip Models Agency, Mercy Catwalk Mushaninga, said the trust had really let modelling agencies down as they were doing their best to groom models. As modelling agencies, whom will we be grooming for, if we fail to host the national pageant, which almost every aspiring and young model wants to be part of, but are missing such opportunities because of such discontinuities? Mushaninga queried. I was there at the auditions and from the girls who came, I believe they had potential and probably what Miss Zimbabwe Trust could have done was to take them into boot camp and chose the best from there. Miss United Countries president Taremeredzwa Munzara said the developments demonstrated the need for innovation. It s time for new things. People must start being creative and not wait for one pageant all year. We can have many national pageants to avoid monopoly. There are many international pageants in the world that need country directors for Zimbabwe, but nobody is stepping up to take franchises, Munzara said.Some of the pageant followers who spoke to NewsDay said that the incorporation of a tight clause that gave the trust the powers to take legal action against a reigning queen in the event that she violated the code of conduct that governs the pageant was scaring away the potential models.