THE Matabeleland South chapter of the Joice Mujuru-led Zimbabwe People First (ZimPF) has been rocked by tribal and factional fights with interim provincial executive member, Bekezela Maduma Fuzwayo, cited as the chief culprit. BY NQOBANI NDLOVUZimPF supporters calling themselves genuine party members in the province last week wrote to Mujuru and national co-ordinator Dzikamai Mavhaire requesting for Fuzwayo s expulsion from the party.They accused him of tribalism, factionalism, insubordination and undermining interim provincial chairperson Leonard Mathuthu and other executive members. Fuzwayo reportedly held an illegal meeting recently to pass a vote of no confidence against Mathuthu. Fuzwayo is practising factionalism in the party, working only with MDC members and not ZimPF members (sic), which is destroying the party &#8230; factionalism is not tolerated in politics and anyone believed to be practising it must be fired from the party immediately, the disgruntled ZimPF members said. Fuzwayo is a serious tribalist who is also a member of Mthwakazi and always fighting against Shona members of the party, which is killing people&#8217;s spirit of joining the party in Gwanda because they now think it s a Ndebele party. We think that the party is not progressing well in Matabeleland South because of the presence of Fuzwayo in the party. The party must get rid of dead wood like him to give an example to everyone who pretends to be working for the party when actually destroying it from inside. In the letter, the ZimPF members also accused Fuzwayo of attempting to sabotage Mujuru s recently held Gwanda rally.Although Fuzwayo confirmed there were moves to boot him out of the party, he denied allegations of fanning factionalism and tribalism in the province. There is serious jostling for positions in the party as they prepare for congress and it could be from some who think I want a position in the party, Fuzwayo said.ZimPF spokesperson Jealousy Mawarire, however, told Southern Eye that Mujuru had not seen the letter. We haven t received such a letter and the party has no knowledge of a group called Concerned Members of Zimbabwe People First in Matabeleland South, he said.Mawarire urged ZimPF party members to uphold the fundamental principles of inclusivity and tolerance that form the basis of our political being as a party .