I ALWAYS wonder how many of us really understand what it means when we say people are being joined in holy matrimony . It s not just matrimony, but it s a holy one. It is holy because of who instituted it. It is holy because of its purpose and nature. Kilton MoyoThere is no demanding, but serving one another in perfect love always focusing on the needs of the spouse more than selfWhen you enter a holy place there are things you are expected to observe. The same applies to marriage. When you enter into it, there are some foundational expectations on you and some requirements too. It is holy and must be entered into in a holy way and must be lived in a holy way. It is a place of holiness. This to me means that we must be thoroughly prepared for this. Our attitudes, mindsets, emotions and words and everything must align with the holiness of this matrimony. Marriage has its standards, attitudes, words, emotions, values, behaviours and ways of living. All these are set to maintain the holiness and purity of this institution. I want us to look at a few of these today to just to help us understand marriage better.You are joined as a couple. The word joined means glued . This means that you are glued together and cannot be separated. This is the reason the Bible says that no one should put you asunder as a couple. The glue used cannot be broken or removed except by the death of a spouse. It is important, therefore, to take note of this so you do not enter today and want out tomorrow. Marriage must not be entered into without preparation and understanding. Take time to learn and appreciate marriage and its holy purpose.There is no divorce Divorce defiles the nature of a holy matrimony. It is a rebellious attitude towards God and marriage. It is not part and parcel of marriage. Divorce is largely due to lack of knowledge on what marriage is all about. It is all a result of a sinful nature that rebels against God and His will for us. It is a worldly pattern and is never part of the holiness and purity of marriage as designed by God.The marriage bed must not be defiled The marriage bed was meant to be kept pure. I call it an altar of purity and pure intimacy. It is a place of sharing life and honouring God in the deepest way that human understanding cannot comprehend. Sexual intercourse is the deepest part of human relationships. It is our duty to keep this bed pure. We can defile it by our adulterous behaviour. Fornication defiles it. Prostitution defiles it. We can defile it by attitudes that are never meant to be part of a holy marriage. Conflicts, wrong words, and many others defile it. Homosexual behaviours and attitudes defile the marriage bed. Other perversions such a pornography, masturbation and others defile this bed. The world is out to defile the marriage bed and dilute its spiritual mysteries that depict the relationship Christ has with His church. It s all about the anti-Christ agenda. Our duty as couples is to protect the holiness and purpose of this bed. Remember also that denying each other as a couple defiles the marriage bed.Husbands love as Christ The standard of doing things in a holy marriage is Christ. Husbands are to love as Christ loves His own bride the Church. The idea is that we learn from Christ how things are done. We learn from him how to love our wives. It is, therefore, important for us men to always take time to hear and copy Christ. We do not have to learn from our traditions and cultures or from the world. In the world, husbands are dictators, cruel, and abusive. Christ has the standard for holiness and for loving in our holy marriages.Wives submit to their own Wives are submitted to their own husbands as they submit to Christ. In the same way they submit to Christ, they submit to their husband. This submission is a leadership role for the wife. They lead through a method called submission. This kind of submission is not that one feminist and others talk about that makes a women a second class or beggar in marriage. This submission empowers the wife so they can play their holy role as Christ in this marriage. I am talking about a holy marriage. In submission you lose nothing but gain more. Ask yourself this question. What has submitting to Christ done to you? This is exactly what submission to your own husband was meant to do to you. Equip and empower you.There are pure words In a holy marriage there is no cursing, blaming, accusations, belittling and degrading one another. Words are pure and give life and hope. It is a place of love and pleasantness. Pleasantness comes from words, which come from a heart that loves and seeks the best for the spouse. There is no demanding, but serving one another in perfect love always focusing on the needs of the spouse more than self.You see beloved, marriage was meant to be heaven on earth. We can stop the invasion for this is what Christ has done. We can emulate Him and restore our marriages and enjoy in this life. Marriage is the best and the sweetest human union in this life. It is a foretaste of what it will be like when we finally get home, living with our father in Heaven. Are you willing to turn your marriage around? It is possible.At Fruitful Marriages, we are here to help you. You can join our exciting school of marriage and be empowered beyond you can imagine. Why not inquire from us and get started right away. You learn while you are at your home. Others are enjoying already. We cannot promise you more but can assure you that you will gain wisdom, understanding and knowledge.Kilton Moyo is creator of Fruitful Marriages, a renewal and enrichment program and is pastor, counselor and author of The Sex Trap. Call or whatsap on +263 775 337 207, +263 772 610 103 or citizenafricafoundation@gmail.com