POPULAR Harare socialite Wanisai Tendai Mahwindo Mutandwa has ended her one year-old marriage with 6 Finger Records to pursue her own dreams under her own trademark, NewsDay Weekender has learnt. BY WINSTONE ANTONIOMahwindoMahwindo who has done extensive events management under the sister company to ZiFM Stereo confirmed the turn of events yesterday after posting about the developments on her Facebook wall.She said it was high time she fulfilled her ambitions and dreams in events co-ordinating as someone with the power and talent. Thank you so much to 6 Finger Records for accommodating me in your firm. I really appreciate it. Do not do it for me only, but to everyone who has the capacity. I wish you the best. Let me try and hustle just like others and I know I can do it, she said. To all artistes, please note that I am no longer employed at 6 Finger Records. If I come to you asking for a show, I will come as Mahwindo and if you want anything concerning events, please (note), I have everything. Let s keep the spirit and work in peace. Mahwindo told NewsDay Weekender she had had a great working relationship with the entire team at 6 Finger Records.Mahwindo, who grew up under the care of her grandmother in Seke communal areas in the dormitory town of Chitungwiza, has risen to become one of the most influential figures in music circles and events management circles. I am turning 40 next month and I have decided to start a new life on a different (note), as they say life begins at 40. I am now starting a new life. [I] am no longer employed by anyone, (but I) am now operating as Mahwindo. Now working out every day, shaping my body, Mahwindo posted on Facebook.She said since 2016 was now in its twilight, next year would be bigger as she had countless events planned. The year is already coming to an end, so nothing big will be on the cards, but I will be concentrating much on helping some artistes who are preparing to release new albums, she said.Mahwindo expressed gratitude to local music promoters and artistes, whom she said contributed to the growth of her career. To Devine Assignments, thank you for showing me the road of success. Chipaz Promotions, 2Kings Entertainment, Big Josh Hozheri, Mama Red Rose, Cossy Rules, I salute you, and Simmad, thank you for putting much trust in me, she said. I also have artistes who encouraged me to be where I am right now, the likes of my brother Mudiwa who is my strength, Sulu, I am speechless, thank you so much, Jah Prayzah, Peter Moyo and the man behind the name Mahwindo, Alick Macheso. Diana Samkange, Boss Spencer, Fleva, King Alfred, Pah Chihera, dancehall artistes, everyone from my clan and others that I did not mention, you a mean a lot me. 