TOURISM and Hospitality minister Walter Mzembi has endorsed Nigerian gospel singer Sinach s concert, which he said was an outcome of a partnership between the ministry s religious tourism desk and concert promoters, Black Studios Entertainment. BY WINSTONE ANTONIOThe Sinach Live in Concert show would be held tomorrow at the Glamis Arena in Harare.Speaking at a Press conference yesterday, Mzembi said they were happy to host Sinach. We have a celebrity host programme run by my ministry and from time to time we invite celebrities directly or indirectly to visit our destinations and it is our pleasure as Zimbabwe top host the award-winning Nigerian musician Sinach, he said. We want to promote tourism within Africa as 70% of our tourists are from Africa and I will be there at the concert to complete my endorsement. The internationally-acclaimed gospel star, who first performed in the country four years ago, is expected to jet in today with her band with another Nigerian gospel music icon, Assent Tweed, who is based in South Africa.Sinach will share the stage with Zimpraise, Call to Worship, Heartfelt Choir, Michael Mahendere and the United Family International Church Choir.Black Studios Entertainment chief executive officer, Promise Chikuni, said the concert was an interdenominational praise and worship show and urged fans to come with their families. This concert is an interdenominational praise and worship show to be headlined by the best female African gospel artist. The show is meant to promote the body of Christ by uniting people from all denominations and raising hands to the Lord, according to the scriptures, Chikuni said. The concert gives rising artistes from different churches the platform to showcase their talents as they rub shoulders with such a seasoned singer who has a successful musical journey which inspires both gospel music followers and artistes. Chikuni said tickets for the concert can be purchased online at Web Tickets with the general entry ticket selling at $10, special guest $50, while the VIP is going for $100. Tickets are also available at Innov 8 Book Shop, Mutare Spar and Booties Pharmacies.