THE Joice Mujuru-led Zimbabwe People First (ZimPF) yesterday said it would continue poaching members from other political parties, while urging the Tendai Biti-led People s Democratic Party (PDP) to stop wailing like a child after suffering massive defections. BY NQOBANI NDLOVUPDP deputy president Samuel Sipepa Nkomo, provincial, district and ordinary members officially quit Biti s party on Thursday to join ZimPF.They were welcomed by ZimPF s top officials, such as Dzikamai Mavhaire, at a function held in Bulawayo.The defections have angered the PDP, which accused ZimPF of refusing to let go of dirty Zanu PF politics of dangling a carrot to poach its members, and negotiating in bad faith .The PDP said the developments also dimmed any prospects of unity between the two parties ahead of the elections. But ZimPF interim national chairperson for information and publicity Methuseli Moyo accused the PDP of being childish. They are wailing like a child who has been burnt by fire. Politics will always be politics. The sooner they know that, the better. We can never stop people from joining our party simply because they come from parties that believe in eternal negotiations and boardroom politics, he said yesterday. We are an authentic party and [we] will do what all real parties do: recruit members. Our political activities will not stop simply because someone wants to negotiate with us. We are sorry, but that is the reality of real politics. PDP spokesperson, Jacob Mafume had accused ZimPF of being insincere about forming a coalition with other parties.He said they had gathered Sipepa Nkomo and others crossed the floor after being promised positions.Sipepa Nkomo will reportedly deputise Mujuru, a charge he denied on Thursday.Sipepa Nkomo told journalists on Thursday that: What becomes imperative is ascertaining that one positions himself in an environment that is conducive to embark on vigorous strides to dismantle the incumbent tyrannical system of governance. To me, I see People First as a sincere and genuine party, which can bring change in Zimbabwe. Mujuru does not have positions. We all know that those people who want positions are subjected to elections. 