Zimbabwean World Boxing Council (WBC) silver welterweight champion, Charles Manyuchi has taunted his Colombian opponent, Jose Agustin Julio Feria ahead of their non-title fight set for the Harare International Conference Centre (HICC) on Friday night. BY MUNYARADZI MADZOKERESpeaking at a Press conference organised by the Sports and Recreation ministry at Munhumutapa Building yesterday, Manyuchi referred to a much senior Feria as his student . I am a man of a few words. I am not here to play, this is my country, I am the champion, so I will take him as my student, he said. I was preparing for a title fight and I m still looking forward to a title fight because that day (Friday) it will be a title fight although there is no belt. I am a diplomat so I will take him as a diplomat also, but I will teach him a lesson. I want to thank the government for allowing this fight to take place in this country, it will see the rise of a dead sport in Zimbabwe and after this fight I think boxing will go a long way. It will be a monumental night for Manyuchi to be back in the ring for his first fight since he won the WBC silver welterweight in May and fighting on home soil makes it even more special.Initially, Manyuchi was supposed to fight Frenchman, Damien Martin before the bout was cancelled. He is now preparing for a title defence in a rematch against Russian, Dmitry Mikhaylenko in a fight that will take place in Russia next month.Feria is confident that he will win, come Friday night. I am happy to be here for this fight and I hope I am going to win. I am hopeful that the fight will be a good one and that I will win the bout. I have come all the way from Colombia and I hope I m going to have a good time here, the 33-year-old said, speaking through an interpreter.Acting President Phelekezela Mphoko urged Zimbabweans to throng the HICC to support boxing. There is going to a non-title fight between our visitor from Colombia and Manyuchi our own son at the HICC. Let us go in full force in support of boxing in this country. All I want to say is may best man win and may the best team win, he saidEight bouts are lined up for the night and the WBC women silver welterweight championship fight pitting Malawian, Agnes Mtimaukanena and Lolitha Muzeya from Zambia is another major attraction.Other non-title fights feature local pugilist Tinashe Mutodza taking on Mumbela Mukune from Malawi in a welterweight bout, while Zimbabweans, Trevor Mpofu and Aleck Gogoda collide in a heavyweight bout.Zambian Barbra Banda takes on Ellen Simwaka of Malawi, while Donald Kampamba and local boxer Wesley MacDade will also clash. The other bout is between Alfred Muwowo and Anyway Katunga in the flyweight category.