THE influence of Adequate Sounds made the difference at this year s national finals of Chibuku Road to Fame, as the Budiriro-based sungura group emerged ultimate winners of the competition on Saturday at Glamis Stadium, Harare. BY WINSTONE ANTONIOAdquate Sounds celebrate after emerging this year s ultimate winner at the annual music showcase, Chibuku Road to Fame on Saturday at Glamis Stadium in HarareThe talented eight-member Adequate Sounds band overpowered nine other bands from the country s 10 provinces to dance away $7 000 richer and also secured a recording contract as part of their prize.Masvingo s Wood Pickers and Mashonaland Central s RJ Zvavapachena pocketed $5 000 and $3 000 after grabbing second and third positions respectively. Adequate Sounds were participating at the national finals of the annual music competition for the second time after settling for second position last year.Band leader Tendai Gwazi said they had improved the vocal ability and the messages on four of the songs they performed. This is the beginning of the growth of our career. We are happy to have won this competition as a result of unity and hard work. We knew what awaited us at the national finals that we all put great efforts at our practice sessions and today (Saturday) hard work has rewarded us, Gwazi said.He said since their major challenge was instruments, they were going to use part of the prize money to purchase some music instruments. As upcoming artistes, finances are a big challenge. But since we have got enough for our debut recording, we are also going to use part of the money to buy better guitars, he said.The competition was sponsored by Delta Beverages, through the Chibuku brand, in partnership with the National Arts Council of Zimbabwe. Top producer Clive Mono Mkundu, who was part of the judges, said they assessed stage presence, including dance routines, reaction of the fans during a performance, uniqueness of the lyrical composition (originality) and clarity of the guitars, among other things.Chibuku brand manager, Karen Dhliwayo, said this year s edition of the competition had more polished acts. I foresee this year s winners, Adequate Sounds, challenging for honours in the music industry as they are a talented group of youngsters. I hope they will continue doing well in their careers and to all the winners, once again congratulations, Dhliwayo said. Some of the groups that battled for honours were sungura outfits Kupenya Stars (Bulawayo), Wood Pickers (Masvingo), Murinye Express (Midlands), Afro-fusion bands Sunrise Jazz from Manicaland, Shantani Band (Matabeleland North), African Roots (Mashonaland East) and Afro-jazz outfits Zondamthakathi (Matabeleland South) and Jazz Crooners (Mashonaland West). After the competition, guests who attended the free-of-charge event were entertained by musicians including Alick Macheso, Winky D, Jah Prayzah, Jeys Marabini, Romeo Gaza and last year s competition winners, Black Sight.