Mutare City Rovers . . . . . . . .0 ZPC Kariba. . . . . . . . . . . . 0MUTARE City Rovers were held to a goalless draw by ZPC Kariba at Sakubva Stadium in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match yesterday. BY KENNETH NYANGANISunday ChidzambwaDraws are not what Rovers need at this stage as they fight to beat the drop to the second-tier league.After yesterday s result they moved to 21 points, two more than Tsholotsho who sit on position 15 on the league log.It was a case of both teams fluffing their lines in front of goal and the home side s coach Taku Shariwa was left a frustrated man. We created three or four good chances and we failed to score, but it I still feel it was point gained rather than us dropping two, he said. We also blame the draw on travelling because we have been on the road in the past two weeks, but we are hoping to collect maximum points against How Mine in our next match, he said.His counterpart Sunday Chidzambwa said they should have buried Rovers in the first half, adding that his side had been more dominant in the match. We should have buried them in the first half when we created good chances. I know Rovers have been playing well but today they were not at their best. In a match like this we should have won by a big margin, he said.Rovers started the match brightly and they nearly opened the scoring in the third minute through Manuel Meleka, but his close range shot was saved by the visitors goalkeeper Takabva Mawaya.Seven minutes later the visitors won a free-kick at the edge of the box, and Munyaradzi Munyarimwe s low shot was saved by Victor Twaliki.Twaliki was called again into action in the 21st minute saving Tawanda Munyanduri s fine header. Rovers made a tactical substitution bringing on Tristian Chabwana in the 36th minute for out of form Collin Muzawazi.In the 39th minute the visitors Never Tigere s shot missed the target with Twaliki a beaten man.The visitors started the second half brightly and in the 55th minute Tawanda Nyamandwe won space inside the home side box but he shot wide.Mawaya produced a fine save in the 65th minute after tipping over the bar Agrippa Murimba s shot for a corner kick. ZPC Kariba almost scored a late winner but Talent Chawapiwa failed to beat Twaliki in a face-to-face situation in the 81st as both teams settled for a draw.