 The problems we face can never be solved at the same level of thinking we were at when we created them. Albert Einstein said this many years ago and his statement has become a universally accepted truth. Vince MuseweReserve Bank of Zimbabwe governor John Mangudya, announced his mid-term monetary statement last week and it is obvious that, despite his well-intentioned stated objectives to increase liquidity through promoting exports and reducing imports, fiscal policy remains an albatross around our necks.Monetary policy is meant to be complemented by fiscal policy, but in our case we have a government which is more interested in political power than dealing with the urgent economic problems. Without a significant shift in government expenditure downwards, we will continue to have liquidity issues and this will have a negative impact on production and, therefore, a negative impact on our growth prospects.Zimbabwe can earn much more through its mineral exports while significantly reducing especially food imports, but if those earnings continue to be spent unproductively as is the case now, nothing much will change.We can increase exports by investing better in our mining sector particularly small scale miners who need to be better organised to increase their productivity. We can also reduce our maize imports to zero if we focus on investing in our land assets and utilising our skills base of farmers who are now largely underutilised to increase local production. The governor is clearly taking advice here and announced various measures to do just that. For example, availing $20 million for small scale miners capacity development. However, the challenge we may face here is on the implementation side and whether the ministry of mines does its duty in ensuring that such a scheme works. On the agricultural front, the governor is supporting initiatives to reduce maize imports for the next season and we should see maize imports reduce significantly thus saving us millions. A $10m pre and post-shipment facility has also been established for horticultural farmers in order to increase exports. There is no doubt that investing in agriculture can indeed reduce our import bill significantly and also increase employment, but this will happen when we deal with the issue of land tenure. I do not know why it is taking so long to finalise the 99-year lease agreements for them to become acceptable security to the banks.Access to affordable credit is also critical if we are to increase local production capacity. The cost of micro credit has been reduced from as much as 20% per month to 10% per month. In addition, a credit guarantee fund has been established to make it easy for companies to access credit. Banks can now arrange offshore credit of up to $20 million without seeking authority from the RBZ, but merely inform them. This makes it less cumbersome for banks and companies to arrange foreign lines of credit. However, country risk and policy inconsistencies remain the main problems.My opinion on the above measures is that their effectiveness in boosting production and increasing revenues will remain prisoner to fiscal policy and politics. Until we have a government which takes its responsibilities seriously and spends much less than is the case now, our economy will remain constrained and unable to grow.We then have to deal with the contentious issues of bond notes. The main issue here is that of trust and lack of confidence. Zanu PF cannot be said to have reformed regarding its behaviour towards the economy and how it manages money. None of us, therefore, expect Zanu PF to respect economic principles and do the necessary in order to address the fundamentals. The nightmare of 2008 is still fresh in many minds and there is real fear that Zanu PF could take Zimbabweans back there again through the issuing of bond notes whose legality is still to be confirmed anyway.Technically it may make sense, especially if the governor keeps his word and does not overprint. In such a case, the amount released into the economy would have no significant impact at all on money supply as it will represent a very minute percentage. The governor has hinted on the establishment of an independent committee to monitor how much he prints and some of us would certainly want to be on that committee to mitigate risk but only as a last resort.If he prints amounts of bond notes equivalent to 5% of exports at the most, then the potential negative impact on the economy will be very small. However, we have already heard unsubstantiated rumours that $2,5 billion worth of bond notes have already been printed and will be released into the economy. If that is the case then we are in real trouble because obviously the government will seek to use them to reduce pressure on the fiscus. I can t see Mangudya acceding to such a scheme as this would literally destroy the economy.The bottom line is that Zimbabweans have lost confidence in this government and that confidence will only return with a change of leadership and a sincere approach to address the fundamentals.Unfortunately as monetary policy seeks to address liquidity and production issues, fiscal policy remains the elephant in the room. Let us wait and see.Vince Musewe is an economist and author. He is also Secretary for finance and economic affairs for PDP. You may contact him on vtmusewe@gmail.com