THE Castle Lager Premier Soccer League title race is entering the home straight with log leaders FC Platinum, Caps United, Highlanders and Dynamos battling it for the top prize. BY HENRY MHARA/ FORTUNE MBELEWith just six matches to play before the end of the season, all the leading three teams in FC Platinum, Caps United and Highlanders have a good chance as they are separated by just four points.Stragglers Dynamos and ZPC Kariba are still fancying their chances, but if these two drop points this weekend, they should consider their hopes as good as finished.FC Platinum are currently in the driving seat, but just, as they have a one-point advantage over Caps United. Both teams dropped crucial points in their midweek draws, and can t afford to do the same this weekend with third-placed Highlanders breathing down their necks after their crucial win over Harare City on Thursday to blow the race wide open.The contest could even be more open after this weekend s fixture, with FC Platinum hosting Dynamos at Mandava Stadium today in the big match of the week a game that both teams cannot just afford to lose. The log leaders have shown signs of nervousness in the last few matches, where they have managed two victories and six draws. If they fail to win here, they could find themselves in second position tomorrow evening. It would be hard to see Norman Mapeza s side recovering from that with games against Harare City, Ngezi Platinum and Chapungu, a potential title decider against Highlanders and a concluding fixture against Tsholotsho still on their roster.Second-placed Caps United, who are also still to play Dynamos at some stage, host How Mine at the National Sports Stadium tomorrow, hoping to capitalise in the event that FC Platinum stutter.Playing a day after their immediate rivals have played has its advantages and disadvantages as Caps would find out tomorrow, depending on the outcome in Zvishavane.After this, Caps also have a winnable match against Border Strikers before back-to-back Harare derbies against Dynamos and Harare City, two matches that may potentially decide their season. Matches against Ngezi Platinum and Chapungu would conclude the Green Machine s season, by which point they would know their season fate. For Highlanders, victory over Harare City two days ago has given them confidence of unlikely success come November. They are four points off FC Platinum and host Ngezi Platinum tomorrow knowing there should be no room for error.Of the leading teams, the Bulawayo giants appear to have an easy run in, on paper that is. Besides their match against FC Platinum, second from the last match of the season, Highlanders have winnable matches against Bulawayo City, Tsholotsho, and Hwange on the final day of the season. Every match is now very important for us if we have to win anything this year. We cannot make a mistake. Every game for us is now a cup final and we have to do it ourselves and hope that Platinum and Caps drop points. We just have to win every game that is coming our way, Highlanders coach Erol Akbay reckons.Yet, it is matches against these teams fighting relegation and no hoppers which are always tricky at this stage of the season.Dynamos, at 38 points, 10 behind FC Platinum, are almost out of the reckoning, but can as well turn out to be the kingmakers of this intriguing title race.After their match against FC Platinum today, they clash with Caps United in two weeks time and there is no doubt that they would want to throw some spanners in their main rivals works. Fixtures Today: Chapungu v Bulawayo City (Ascot), FC Platinum v Dynamos (Mandava) Tomorrow: Highlanders v Ngezi Platinum (Barborfields), Hwange v Border Strikers (Colliery), Caps United v How Mine (NSS), Mutare City v ZPC Kariba (Sakubva), Triangle v Chicken Inn (Gibbo) Monday: Tsholotsho v Harare City (Luveve)