AFTER a spectacular fall at the death, which saw bitter rivals Caps United claw back and secure a crucial point in a six-goal Castle Lager Premier Soccer League thriller at the National Sports Stadium on Sunday, Dynamos players were left gutted and by yesterday, they still barely believed they had thrown away such a strong position to register their best away result of the season so easily. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKAHow Caps United, almost dead and buried traling 3-nil on 86 minutes, managed to force a share of the spoils was still a talking point by late yesterday.Dynamos left-back, Ocean Mushure was brutal in his assessment of their defending. It s so disappointing. We had done everything right. We dominated them and got the goals, but conceded with four minutes left, he said. We cannot be happy to secure a draw under such circumstances. We see it as a defeat because, for a team like Dynamos, if we lead even 1-0 or 2-0 with just four minutes remaining, we should be able to defend our lead. We did everything, but our defending on the blind side was horrible because all the goals came from that side, he said. Goals from Roderick Mutuma, Masimba Mambare and substitute Tawanda Mucheke seemed to have set Dynamos on course for maximum points before the drama started with goals from Dennis Dauda, who scored a double, and Amon Kambanje.The way Dynamos surrendered the lead came as a surprise to many and as a huge disappointment to DeMbare fans.The draw was enough to ensure Caps United maintained their lead at the top of the log, although it was cut to one point following Highlanders victory over Bulawayo City at Barbourfields Stadium.Importantly, it ensured Caps United remained unbeaten by Dynamos this season, having won the reverse fixture, the first time in seven years.The Glamour Boys unbeaten record against Highlanders in the league in a decade was also broken this season, with the Bulawayo giants completing a rare double over their nemesis.Mushure, however, said they remained hopeful of finishing in the top four. Dynamos are in fifth place, with 40 points, one behind fourth-placed ZPC Kariba, with only three matches left in the campaign.