THAT human beings murder each other has a long history. In fact, it goes back to prehistorical, early biblical times. Eve bore Adam two sons, Cain and Abel, and Cain, a crop farmer, killed Abel, a shepherd (Genesis 4). And blood has been spilled ever since, it just does not stop. FR OSKAR WERMTER SJI was born during a war, and my earliest memories were of warplanes dropping bombs on a nearby city where tens of thousands perished. Later as a schoolboy I had to walk across bombed-out houses where I imagined dead people were still buried in the basement. Our father did not come back from the war. My widowed mother and us children, we were absolutely determined, War never again! We were a country without an army, airforce or navy, without any military! Wonderful, we said, let us leave it that way! Who needs the military anyway? Let us rebuild our ruined cities instead. Daily we heard the sirens of bomb removal squads. Now and then, some unexploded bombs and shells went off and shattered windows far and wide, sometimes blowing the soldiers trying to remove those lethal remnants of the war sky-high and shredding them to bits. Civilians became late victims of our own war of liberation , as happens after every war, when they stepped on hidden landmines. Didn t we lose many of our friends and neighbours in this country that way, together with domestic animals and wild game, along the borders? After World War II, there was an endless discussion about war and violence, rearmament and calling young men for military service again. A strong popular movement voted for NO. Especially nuclear rearmament and the atomic bomb were condemned, by many church people on ethical and religious grounds. But eventually the resistance broke down. People accepted the need for the military on pragmatic grounds . We need it as a necessary evil , they said. There is such a thing as a just (defensive) war . Earnest, prayerful people even believed there was such a thing as a sacred war . War and violence seem to be in our blood, and reasons are always found to take up arms and fight for freedom and justice . Marxist guerillas in Latin America, eg, Che Guevara, infected the post-war generation who had no more memories of world wars, with fresh enthusiasm for fighting and armed revolutions. Even some churchmen, espousing liberation theology , showed great sympathy for the jungle war. But some of us have not forgotten. And we ask: Why do we opt for war and bloodshed, bombs and guns, nuclear annihilation and mass murder? Often war is presented as the last resort . The oppression is too bad, we can no longer tolerate this slavery. Our masters must no longer deny us freedom and a life in dignity and equality. So we see it as a just war , defending ourselves and our human dignity, freedom, justice, equality. That is what happened when colonial masters were in complete denial, just could not see any justice in national resistance, and their intransigence just would not allow any dialogue or mutual understanding achieved at a roundtable without first having slaughtered tens of thousands. Political leaders may not have decided on total war . However, once they want something absolutely, they will take it by all means, fair or foul. It is like a man who wants a woman, whether she wants him or not, so he rapes her. Someone wants unlimited wealth, so he takes it by hook or by crook, by lying, fraud, murder, anything, nothing holds him back. Being rich, he must protect his wealth by power. Once you have wealth and power, you must continue accumulating more and more, you cannot stop, in case someone else has an even bigger slice of the cake and wants to take it away from you. It is an addiction, unstoppable. That is why we have the steadily widening gap between rich and poor, slum dwellers and owners of mega-mansions. But once they have opted for armed violence, they are stuck. The Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia have just signed a peace agreement after more than 50 years. We do not know whether it will last. The step from peace to war is easy, but from war to peace, from hatred to mutual respect, from tyranny to democracy is extremely difficult. Ever since the nationalist leaders decided to abandon the negotiating table for fighting in a bush war, understandable as it was, they were stuck in violence and open hostility. They cannot help using violence as a political weapon even now that the war was won. The enemies of the past are still the enemies of today. You cannot have peace or freedom, justice or true equality, unless you are prepared to lose power and wealth, at least up to a point. As long as you want power absolutely, at any price, there won t be democracy, any negotiated solution, any shared government, the real power resting with Parliament. Democracy, ie, participation by people in government, the rule of law all these wonderful things we aspire to can only be had at the risk of losing control and power! The plain truth is: If you honestly enter a contest called election , you implicitly accept the possibility of losing. If you don t, what is the point of contesting? But this risk ruling parties will never incur! Here the freedom fighters shoot themselves in the foot. They betray the freedom they fought for. At least this seems to dawn now on some of them.When I was little our family used to say, War? Never again! Now 60 years later I see on TV news only suicide bombers, terror attacks, mass killings, air raids and women and children bombed out of their homes, badly hurt. This monster called War is alive and well, fed on mass murder.Fifty years ago our leaders decided on armed warfare. It was not meant to last. But now it seems to come back to intimidate and paralyse us. Once they have tasted this sweet drug called power, there is no going back. Or do we need another war? That would be a vicious cycle perpetuating violence, fighting fire with fire.The just war theory seemed plausible, but has let us down. A nation may initially merely try to defend itself, but it ends up in aggression. Originally our leaders may have wanted no more than to defend their dignity as a people and put a stop to insult and humiliation in a racist society. But we now see how at least hardliners among them attack, humiliate and insult anyone seemingly in the way of their ambitions and greed. Violence grows on you, once obsessed by it you cannot let go. That is our tragedy. There is no just war , no purely defensive military action. It all ends up in mass slaughter, murder, bloodshed. At the very end the antagonists have to sit down at the famous roundtable and talk. There is no way past it. But if we have to talk after all the fighting and loss of life, why can t we do it before we have gone to war? Why can t we cut the bloodshed out altogether? Why can t we talk NOW? A world without war? That seems Utopian. It has never happened. It has been there since Cain and Abel, so it will go on, we may think. We must think boldly. We never thought we would fly aeroplanes. But now we do. We never thought we would eradicate leprosy, cope with TB, even, up to a point, with HIV and Aids, and we seem on the point of defeating malaria. So why should we not also get rid of the scourge of war and violence? Impossible? It is a moral and spiritual disease, an act of rebellion against the Creator who created us for peace, not war. In trust and hope we must try. War? Never again!