STANDARD Bank of South Africa has teamed up with the Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC) and Wells Fargo Bank for a $300 million facility to fund power infrastructure projects on the continent. BY BUSINESS REPORTER The 12-year funding line for Standard Bank, the largest African banking group by assets, was signed on the sidelines of the US-Africa Business Forum in New York City last month. The bank, which is the parent company for Zimbabwe s commercial bank Stanbic, will provide $33 million from its balance sheet to support transactions financed by the facility. At least $150 million of the facility will support power transactions as part of President Obama s Power Africa initiative, with up to $100 million available for other strategic infrastructure projects beyond the power sector.Sim Tshabalala, Standard Bank Group ceo said power and infrastructure played a crucial role in the economic development of Africa. We are delighted to be part of such an important initiative and look forward to working with OPIC and Wells Fargo to promote sustainable economic growth and to make a real difference to the lives of the people of Africa. Standard Bank has the experience, knowledge and presence in Africa to make this project a resounding success. OPIC president and CEO Elizabeth Littlefield said her organisation was excited to collaborate on an initiative that will have a long-lasting impact on the lives of millions throughout Africa. By supporting both infrastructure and power projects, this forward-thinking loan facility brings badly-needed capital to the table and will pave the way for future development in Africa to take root and grow, Littlefield said.Chuck Silverman, executive vice-president and head of Wells Fargo said: Wells Fargo is pleased to sponsor this landmark facility for The Standard Bank of South Africa, which will utilise proceeds to finance renewable energy projects in low income, IDA-eligible countries in Africa, where such infrastructure is key to promoting environmentally sustainable development. Wells Fargo is proud to have worked in close partnership with OPIC to arrange and co-lend in support of this project. OPIC is the US government s development finance institution. It mobilises private capital to help address critical development challenges and in doing so, advances US foreign policy and national security priorities. Wells Fargo &#038; Company is a diversified, community-based financial services company with $1,9 trillion in assets.Statistics show that of the 1,3 billion people in the world people who do not have access to electricity, more than 600 million live in Africa. This has seen a number of initiatives being put in place to light up Africa.Last year, the African Development Bank launched a New Deal on Energy for Africa, which outlined the solutions to Africa s energy problems in a rapidly changing technological and economic landscape. The bank will invest $12 billion in different energy projects for the next five years, and will leverage about $50 billion from the private sector.