Marriage is a desire given by God and you are born with it. There is a hunger and quest to have another person in your life that is normal. There is nothing exciting about life when you are alone. It becomes exciting when you have other people. Languages are useful when you have people to communicate with and even our cars are also important when we have people to visit. Relationships are very important, you just can t ignore them. More so the desire to have a mate is not something you can pray away, you were designed by God to have someone in your life. It s not demonic, it s a God given desire to have a person in your life and be known by somebody to be there for him or her. However in the process you are bound to have one or two conflicts along the way. BY EMMANUEL MAKANDIWAFrom my interaction with a lot of people I can safely say that the number one cause of problems in marriage is spiritual blindness. When you talk of blindness in the natural doctors will tell you that it comes in different forms. You can be blind in one sense or another sense. There are certain people, that when an object is moving they can t see anything, it if you want them to see it, you have to make sure the object is stationery. It s another form of blindness. Some are colour blind. So if a person can be colour blind they can see every other thing except for colours. Sometimes blindness doesn t mean that you are not seeing anything. Because even blind people can see. You ask them they will tell you that I am seeing darkness. There is a man in the bible whom Jesus prayed for. Jesus asked him what are you seeing and he said I am seeing men as trees. This was another dimension of blindness. His vision was distorted it was not correct and not accurate. So if what you see is not what is there, that s blindness and it s enough to trigger a fight in a marriage set up. Physically if you become blind right now I am sure that in the next one hour you will be attended to. You will not wait till tomorrow because you know something is wrong. You start investigating and looking for help yet this is physical blindness. Some put on glasses to perfect how we see, yet we do not have all those methods when we have spiritually blind people. There are so many people who are not doing anything yet they are spiritual blind. They do not know the dangers of being spiritually blind. You would rather have your physical eyes closed than to have your spiritual eyes closed. It s better for you to have the spiritual eyes working, because the reason why many are fighting is because they cannot see. If you want to stop their fights open their eyes. You will begin to see things in a different perspective through the eyes of God, how God perceives situations. If your spiritual eyes can be open. We have the same five senses in the spirit you must be able to smell touch, see spiritually. Most of the fights you are having are not necessary. If your eyes are open you will know that you are not fighting in the flesh. When you have differences you have many different ways of responding to that. Some fights are not worth it. People differ in the manner in which they respond to conflict because of their different perspectives. Spiritually you can look beyond and see the spirit pushing someone to insult you. I have seen many people under demonic influence saying I hate you Makandiwa. I know it s not her, but a demonic spirit controlling the person. So I will never be offended by that.Many think demons manifest in church alone, they can even manifest in your bedroom. When a demon hates you they will hate you through the closest person to you. Remember spirits are not allow to function in a physical world unless they possess a body. If the devil wants to attack you, it uses an individual. Some end up struggling with the physical side you see. Remember in the bible there was a servant who was blind who could see everything else but miss out on the important detail. While he was with his master he saw that they had been surrounded by many enemies. However when he went to his master it proved that his sight was limited to the physical. There are people like that all they see are challenges. All they see are insults. The prophet then said God open the eyes of this young man. The Prophet knew that there were angels and suddenly this young man saw that there were angels all over the place. This guy had not developed eyes that see in the spiritual realm. Do not fight people who are already victims of spiritual forces. Have you ever seen people that hate you for no reason, they believe everything about that they hear.Knowing the difference between the person you married and the devil behind her actions is very important. Many people are driven by what you can t see. You can t see demons but then you can see what they are doing. Their manifestation is what is visible.When they operate it s like the wind blowing, you can t see the wind but you can see things being moved, you see the dust but it s the wind. That which is invisible is making something manifest. Many people are victims of demons and they are telling what they are being told by demons because demons know what breaks you down. Your wife can get information from demons and tell. You can have demons talking to you every day through your spouse. You wonder often how your wife is able to use the exact words that trigger your anger. Demons know more.The spiritual world is organised, the devil know which buttons to press in order to frustrate you. The same devil can leave your wife and follow you at work and enter into your secretary. You can start comparing the two and demons would be using the secretary to be like an angel to you. The timing is usually the same time when you would be having problems with your wife. She will be told by demons what you are missing at home. There is no need for couples to fight especially when dealing with unseen forces. The best you can offer that person is deliverance not divorce. I was speaking to someone who was married 8 times. She said she wants to get married for the 9th time. All these previous 8 people had problems. at times you struggle to understand how someone can be married nine times when one is struggling get married once. I told her you cannot divorce someone because of a demon, and these 8 people are the same. I said to her you divorced all these guys because they were demon possessed and the same demon kept on migrating to the next person you would marry. Some of you know that your spouse is demon possessed because they cannot just change from such a nice person to be a creature. If you can have spiritual eyes you would change the way you talk because you know my friend is under attack.