Dynamos ..0 How Mine .0 How Mine won 5-4 on penalties BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKAWITH the league championship seemingly out of reach, Dynamos had targeted to transform a miserable season into a reasonably successful one by winning the Chibuku Super Cup, but a first round exit against How Mine at Rufaro Stadium probably highlights how poor they have been this season.TOP LEFT: Dynamos player Wisdom Mutasa missed a penalty as his side were booted out of the Chibuku Cup by How Mine. BOTTOM LEFT:Dynamos coach Lloyd Mutasa looks dejected after his side went down to How Mine yesterday. RIGHT: How Mine players celebrate after beating DeMbare in the Chibuku Super Cup first round football match at Rufaro Stadium yesterdayHow Mine claimed victory and a ticket to the next round via a penalty shootout after a nil-all stalemate after 90 minutes.How Mine number one and Warriors second choice goalkeeper Bernard Donovan overshadowed his compatriot Tatenda Mukuruva the first choice national team goalkeeper, saving two penalties to put his team on course.He denied Mukuruva and Wisdom Mutasa as DeMbare suffered a penalty woe to bow out of the premier knock out tournament that comes with it a ticket to the Caf Confederation Cup. Quard Amini, Milton Ncube, Kuda Musharu, Pascal Manhanga and Donovan converted their spot kicks for How Mine, while Praise Tonha had his effort saved by Mukuruva Ocean Mushure, Godknows Murwira, Denver Mukamba, and Masimba Mambare scored for Dynamos, while Mutasa watched his tame effort saved by Donovan. It was the third meeting between the two sides this season and goals have been stubbornly elusive in all the meetings, which all ended goalless.It was the first time for How Mine coach Kelvin Kaindu to claim any win against Dynamos.The victory though came after the visitors complained they had been subjected to psychological torture as they were shocked to see a steak of rotten pork meat in their dressing room before the match.Kaindu said it was unprofessional for Dynamos to behave in the manner they did and reported the issue to the match commissioner.The match had failed to produce the winner after 90 minutes of regulation time with both teams struggling to create clear cut chances. But Dynamos had decent chances in the first half with Mutasa missing a headed opportunity from a cross by Bret Amidu on 25 minutes.Denver Mukamba also missed another headed opportunity on 29 minutes.In the second half, How Mine dominated the match, but still struggled to break down the Dynamos defence. Timothy January had a good chance on 49 minutes, but directed his effort over the bar.Coach Lloyd Mutasa expressed disappointment to see his side bow out in the first round. He said it summed up a disappointing season for his side. It s part and parcel of the game. We trained this (penalty taking) before the match but such is football. We thought we would win it in normal time, but we never created much going forward. We thought we would give it our best in the Chibuku Super Cup but it was not to be, a dejected Mutasa said.His counterpart Kelvin Kaindu was happy with the victory. I don t have so many words to say. I think it has taken me as an individual a long time to celebrate after beating Dynamos, he said. I give credit to the players. It was not easy. Everyone put up a fight. We controlled the match and deserved to win. We knew that our biggest threat was going to be Dynamos and we said to the players in terms of fighting for the championship, we are far behind and we have to give our best in the Chibuku Cup and everybody responded, Kaindu said.Teams: Dynamos; T Mukuruva, G Murwira, O Mushure, D Mukandi, O Mwerahari, T Chipunza, B Amidu, (S Gorogojo 82), D Mukamba, M Mambare, T Sadiki,(M Madhiri 71st) W Mutasa How Mine; B Donovan, P Tonha, M Ncube, V Kamhuka, T Khumbuyani, S Makundika, T Banda, P Manhanga, T Makanda, K Musharu , T January (Q Amini 87)