Harare City . . . . . . . . . . 0 Highlanders . . . . . . . (0) 1ALLEN Gahadzikwa was the hero, rising to the occasion when it mattered most to plant a firm header into the nets for Highlanders to see off a battling Harare City in a Castle Lager Premiership football match played at Rufaro Stadium yesterday. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKAGahadzikwa, deemed excess baggage at Caps United, found a new home at the Bulawayo giants and yesterday he played a big part to help Highlanders collect a full set of points against the Sunshine City Boys, who gave everything in an exhilarating match.The former FC Platinum midfielder got to the end of a wonderful delivery from the right by Prince Dube on 60 minutes and leapt highest to nod the ball home.With table toppers FC Platinum and second-placed Caps United stuttering to goalless draws against Border Strikers and ZPC Kariba respectively on Wednesday, Highlanders were the major beneficiaries as they cut the lead at the top to just four points with only six matches left in the campaign, setting the stage for an intriguing conclusion to the title race.Highlanders have 44 points, four adrift of FC Platinum, while Caps United remain in second place with 47.Harare City, though, could have forced a share of the spoils after they were awarded a penalty by Rusape referee Brighton Chimene on 65 minutes after Tendai Ngulube was adjudged to have handled the ball.The penalty decision was met by a chorus of disapproval from the Bosso fans who protested by hurling plastic bottles onto the pitch, forcing a brief stoppage of the match.But as William Manondo stepped up to take the penalty, he lacked conviction and his effort was comfortably saved by impressive goalkeeper Ariel Sibanda.Harare City started brightly, carving out good chances and could have been a goal up on 14 minutes when Raphael Manuvire won possession outside the penalty area and unleashed a powerful shot that crashed against the upright post.Highlanders, however, soaked all the pressure, and at the stroke of the first half, Gahadzikwa missed a headed opportunity. But they were 1-0 up on 60 minutes as Gahadzikwa made amends with a powerful header.Highlanders coach Erol Akbay (pictured) was naturally happy with the three points. We created chances in the first half. In the second half they didn t play good football. The players thought 1-0 it s okay, but they have to play football. But three points is very important, Akbay said. Harare City coach Moses Chunga said it was painful to lose at home after playing so well I am disappointed especially with the way we played. We controlled the match in the first half, but the execution wasn t good, said Bambo, before he castigated Bosso fans for throwing missiles onto the pitch.Teams: Harare City: T Dube, H Chapusha, T Chimwemwe, W Manondo, J James, R Manuvire (G Kufandada 64), T Tumba, R Chitiyo, H Chimutimunzeve (D Mawere), J Chipangura (K Kumwada 64)Highlanders: A Sibanda, R Kutsanzira, S Munawa (K Nadolo 48), P Dube (R Matema 88), T Ndlovu, P Muduhwa, T Ngulube, H Moyo, E Mudzingwa, N Dube (G Nyoni), A Gahadzikwa