HARARE football giants Caps United have been hard hit by injuries with marksman Leonard Tsipa joining the treatment list ahead of the first round of the Chibuku Super Cup first round clash against Tsholotsho, which the cash-strapped side cannot afford to lose. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKAThe Green Machine will be hoping to progress to the quarter-finals of the richly-rewarding tournament when they take on the Bulawayo-based side at the National Sports Stadium tomorrow.Also ruled out of the clash are skipper Moses Muchenje, Tafadzwa Rusike, Abbas Amidu, Archieford Gutu and Chrispen Machisi, who is still to regain full fitness.Muchenje picked a knock during their league clash against Chicken Inn, while Tsipa is complaining of back pain after sustaining an injury in the same match.Caps United coach Lloyd Chitembwe said he would have wanted to have a full complement of players ahead of the important cup tie, but was optimistic of a positive outcome.He said they had been in that predicament before, but still defied odds to emerge victorious. We have been in that situation before, going into a match without two or three key players, but have been doing well. We are not new to this situation, but ideally any coach would want to have all his best players available for a crucial match like this. But anyone who will be selected to play will have to give his best, Chitembwe said.Chitembwe took his charges through a penalty practice session yesterday taking into account the possibility of a spot kick shootout if the teams play out a draw in 90 minutes.The former Caps United midfielder remains cautious ahead of the clash against Tsholotsho despite his side managing to complete a double over the same team in league meetings this season. Tsholotsho are a very good side and recently posted a good result against Border Strikers. I respect them simply because they are in the league on merit. I expect a very tough match. The approach for us is just the same as what we have been doing in all the games this year. We are not going to approach it differently because it s a cup game. With Tsipa, who is the league s top scorer with eight goals, out, they can look up to Simba Nhivi or Dominic Chungwa to lead the line of attack.Caps United, weighed down by a serious cash squeeze, desperately need to win the Chibuku Super Cup to boost their dry coffers. The Green Machine are also in the race for the championship and are just one point behind leaders FC Platinum with only seven matches remaining in the campaign.Chibuku Super Cup first round fixturesToday: Harare City v Border Strikers (Rufaro) Saturday: Ngezi Platinum v Hwange (Baobab Stadium), FC Platinum v Chapungu (Mandava), Caps United v Tsholotsho (National Sports Stadium), ZPC Kariba v Bulawayo City (Nyamhunga), Sunday: Dynamos v How Mine (Rufaro), Triangle v Chicken Inn (Gobbo), Highlanders v Mutare City (Barbourfields)