MUTARE City took four points off Highlanders when the two teams met in the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League this season and the promoted side would be looking to continue their success when they travel to Barbourfields tomorrow for a Chibuku Super Cup first round showdown. BY FORTUNE MBELE/MUKUDZEI CHINGWERECity held Bosso to a goalless draw in Mutare before producing a shocking 2-1 win in the reverse fixture.As they return to Bulawayo again this weekend, the Taku Shariwa-coached side would be looking for a similar upset and progress to the next round at the expense of their more fancied opponents. This is a cup game and Highlanders have a strong mentality to atone for the previous disappointments against us. We are going there to enjoy our game, said Shariwa. Highlanders can be beaten although they will be favourites going into the match. They are enjoying better form than us and the fact that they would also be playing in front of their home supporters. They are our big brother, but anything is possible in football, and our aim is to qualify for the quarter-finals. City have been blowing hot and cold in recent weeks as they bid to avoid relegation in their first season in the premiership, losing two and winning two of their last four matches, including a 2-0 victory over Triangle. In contrast, Highlanders have hit top form in the past few weeks, winning their last three matches including the morale-boosting 2-1 win over arch-rivals Dynamos last Sunday.Highlanders coach Erol Akbay, while a bit worried about City, appears to be looking beyond this fixture.It is particularly from the performance of central defender who was brilliant against Dynamos, that Akbay is drawing much confidence that his side can go all the way and lift the title. We have to focus on our game and be very effective if we are to beat them. We had a problem with two of their strikers (in league encounters), but now we have two defenders who are playing very good football and I think we won t have a problem on Sunday, said Akbay. I am confident of winning the match. What we have to do is score more goals and if we can do that, we can win this cup, added Akbay. City arrive at Barbourfields without some key players including their top goal scorer Kudakwashe Gurure through injuries. The other players who are crocked are William Mapfumo, Vimbai Madamombe and Munyaradzi Sako.Meanwhile, league leaders FC Platinum host Chapungu at Mandava Stadium today hoping to enhance their chances of winning a double this year.The miners hold a one-point advantage over nearest rivals Caps United in the league title race and they would look at the Chibuku Super Cup as another opportunity of silverware, the competition they won two years ago.They are, however, meeting a Chapungu side who are effectively out of the race at position nine on the log standings and have this competition as their only realistic opportunity to win silverware this season.Chapungu head coach John Nyikadzino is under no illusions as to the size of the task that is awaiting his charges this afternoon. If we had a chance to choose our opponents, then FC Platinum would have been the last on the list. They are the best team in the league this season and I know it will be even more difficult to play them in a cup competition, said Nyikadzino. They have also won this tournament before and they know what is required to succeed. But we have also prepared adequately and the players are doing well at training which gives me the confidence that we might get something from the game. We want to go all the way and we will have to fight till the very end for us to have a chance of going through, he added.Chibuku Super Cup first round fixtures Today: Ngezi Platinum v Hwange (Baobab), FC Platinum v Chapungu (Mandava), Caps United v Tsholotsho (National Sports Stadium), ZPC Kariba v Bulawayo (Nyamhunga)Tomorrow: Dynamos v How Mine (Rufaro), Triangle v Chicken Inn (Gibbo), Highlanders v Mutare City Rovers (Barbourfields)