TRIANGLE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 FC PLATINUM . . . . . . . . . . (0)1 FC Platinum marched on to the semi-finals of the Chibuku Super Cup after dismissing Triangle in a match played at Gibbo Stadium yesterday. BY KENNETH NYANGANINorman MapezaThe Castle Lager Premier Soccer League table toppers maintained their dream for a double this season with a hard-fought victory over David Mandigora s Sugar Sugar Boys.Substitute, Makai Kawashu scored the all-important goal for Norman Mapeza s side with 13 minutes of play left.The visitors enjoyed the lion s share of possession in the first half, but failed to breach the home side s defences.Elvis Moyo was guilty of missing good opportunities for the Zvishavane-based side.He could have thrust his side ahead after half an hour, but he shot over the bar from a free kick.At the other end Dzingai Chirambamuriwo could have punished FC Platinum two minutes later, but he shot wide following a beautiful pass from Courage Denias.In the second half both teams continued probing and Triangle stars Malvern Gaki and Marvelous Mukumba both missed clear cut chances.Gaki hit the back of the net after 61 minutes, but the goal was chalked off after referee Norman Matemera adjudged that the attacker had handled the ball before he scored.Mapeza s removal of Tarisai Rukanda for Kawashu paid dividends as he went on to score the winning goal.FC Platinum head coach Norman Mapeza said he was happy that his side had progressed to the next stage of the competition. It is good to win in a cup competition and it s good to progress to the next stage of the competition. I am glad with the way the guys worked today, I will ask for more of the same looking ahead. On the other hand, Mandigora said he was not happy with the match officiation claiming that they were robbed of a clear goal in the second half. They scored from an off side position, and we scored a clear goal, it was a clear goal indeed and l am not happy with some of the referee s decisions, he said.