GOVERNMENT should set up a respected economic think-tank meant to give sound advice on economic matters, an independent consultant has said. BY MTHANDAZO NYONIPresenting at a meeting organised by the National Youth Development Trust last week in Bulawayo, an independent consultant Believer Mhlanga said a number of countries in Europe and Africa have set up think-tanks responsible for giving advice to governments and even going to the extent of playing a major role of determining prices on the market. Our local market is determined by politicians and this on its own is a setback, and a challenge. Think-tanks are vital for any economy, as their role would be to give sound advice on economic matters, he said. There must be a think-tank comprising of technocrats, economists, academics, legal experts. These should be respected people who put the country at heart and shun self-actualisation. Mhlanga said the inability to separate politics from economic interests was a chronic disease of Africa, while explaining the reasons for the nose-diving economy. Business is business and politics is politics. I believe as a country we have a bullish future, so much potential, a rich country full of natural resources, minerals, academics, that if all put to efficient use can boost the economy and stabilise it in a short period of time. Political interests cannot properly manage the economy and enhance progress; it always sways to danger zones, he said.Mhlanga said the only way to bring development was to rebrand the country through implementing political and economic reforms that boost investor confidence thereby luring foreign investors.He said more than 400 laws were still to be aligned to the Constitution and operating in such an environment was challenging. Mhlanga said politicians across the political divide and civic organisations should refrain from making statements that have a negative effect on the economy of Zimbabwe at large .Parastatals, he said, were bleeding and draining the small pool of fiscus and it was prudent to privatise some of them or look for good and not bogus partners to bring development.He said the Zimbabwe economy needed foreign direct investment, a key ingredient to economic growth.