The South African Embassy in Zimbabwe and the South African Airways (SAA) will hold a family fun day next month to celebrate the airline s 82nd anniversary. by business reporterA consultant from Jamaica, Kamisha Menns, makes a presentation during the introduction of the draft competition law by the Competition and Tarriff Commission at HICC on MondayThe event will be held at Belgravia Sports Club on October 1. South Africa celebrates Heritage Day on September 24 and SAA said it prides itself in bringing the world to Africa and taking Africa to the world.The airline has established offices around the world, including Zimbabwe.SAA said, as its international network has grown, we have come to learn that we have more in common than we realise. Such crucial insights, SAA chairperson, Dudu Myeni said, are the reason why SAA has been winning awards over the years. We are an African airline, first and foremost. We understand what it means to be African, the airline said, adding that this year, it received, for the 14th consecutive year, the prestigious title of Africa s leading airline. Our African operations continue to be the jewel in our crown and we celebrate 20 years of flying between Johannesburg and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, as well as to Accra, Ghana. We ve also been flying for 25 years to Nairobi, Kenya, SAA said.The airline said safety first has been one of its corporate values and our safety record and outstanding on-time performance are key drivers among customers choosing to fly with us . Other corporate values include valuing our people, customer-focused service, accountability, integrity and excellence in performance. These are central in ensuring SAA remains a modern, technologically advanced airline that flies millions of people every year, the airline said. We want the heritage we leave behind for future generations to incorporate the best of what those who came before us put in place. What the coming generations inherit from us will be a symbiosis of the past and our hopes for the future. This is what motivates our dedicated approach towards equity in the workplace, appointing women as leaders, the empowerment of our country s youth and creating economic opportunities for the previously disadvantaged to drive transformation in many spheres of our influence. 