NATIONAL Arts Council of Zimbabwe (NACZ) director Elvas Mari has urged artistes to diversify and be creative as a way of growing their careers and art. BY WINSTONE ANTONIOReverand. T. Chivaviro performs on stage in a joint session with Vadzidzi Vekutanga Choral Group during the launch of his dvd video of mhepo inoperekedza on Wednesday at Anglican Church in the CBD.Mari made the remarks on Wednesday night while addressing guests at South Africa-based gospel musician Togarepi Chivaviro s launch of Mhepo Inoperekedza DVD album and two books, one of which was authored by his wife, in Harare. Reverend Chivaviro, as a musician, has shown his diversity as an artiste by writing books, thereby taking his career to another level. The Chivaviro family is now also spreading the Word of God through books, he said. I am proud of Mai Chivaviro, she is my student and today, she is able to write a book. Meanwhile, Mari expressed disappointment over the rising levels of piracy, which he said was prejudicing artists of millions of dollars and called for enforcement of laws against the scourge. As National Arts Council of Zimbabwe, we are appealing for enforcement of the laws against piracy. We can make policies, but to enforce them is a problem. Our plea is that it is not only the law we are looking for as artists, but the enforcement, he said.In an interview with NewsDay on the sidelines of the event, Chivaviro said him and his wife wanted to fulfil their calling through different platforms. We have a mandate to take the gospel of Jesus Christ to the people and we are doing it through various means like singing, preaching and writing. We shall continue to do as much as God enables us and these products are just part of the grand plan to use every means to accomplish the mission, he said.Chivaviro said the six-video album was shot in Zimbabwe, Mozambique, South Africa and Botswana. We have taken into consideration our fans plea for quality videos and we hope they will enjoy the videos. We have done another rendition of Ebenezer and I am sure it will be well appreciated, he said.The gospel singer said the success of the launch had set the right tone for tomorrow s Ebenezer Celebration Festival meant to celebrate the success of the hit song, Ebenezer, at the Harare Gardens.