JAMAICAN reggae outfit Morgan Heritage was expected in the country on Tuesday to allow group members a chance to mix and mingle with their local fans ahead of their once-off concert scheduled for October 8, but they are yet to land in Zimbabwe, NewsDay has established. BY WINSTONE ANTONIOAlthough concert organisers, 2 Kings Entertainment, assured the 16-member band s fans that they would have time with their idols, a source privy to the developments yesterday said the outfit would arrive in the country a day before the concert. These guys (organisers) seem to be lying to the people. From what I gathered, Morgan Heritage is expected in Zimbabwe a day before their concert, the source said.The Grammy award-winning group is set to stage its first concert in the country as part of their African tour dubbed Strictly Roots, which will also see them performing in Kenya, Uganda and Reunion Island.Concert spokesperson Dee Nosh told NewsDay recently that the group would touch down at Harare International Airport on September 27 and spend about 14 days in the country to have enough time to tour some of the tourist resorts. With the concert now being staged earlier than previously advised, after one of our partnering countries changed their concert date that also resulted in us moving the concert earlier than before, Morgan Heritage will now have more time in Zimbabwe, which will see them visiting some of the country s tourists areas during their 14-day stay, Dee Nosh said then.Materials advertising the concert, including posters, were emblazoned with a statement that read: A 14 days Morgan Heritage experience in Zimbabwe .Contacted for comment yesterday, Dee Nosh was reluctant to speak on the latest development and referred questions to Jive Zimbabwe s Benjamin Nyandoro. I am in the studio, talk to Benji. He is the one handling this issue since he has the itinerary, he said.Nyandoro insisted that there would be a 14-days Morgan Heritage experience in Zimbabwe , although that was no longer realistic because of the time that had lapsed. I confirm with authority that Morgan Heritage is coming to Zimbabwe . . . At the request of Morgan Heritage to spend more time in Zimbabwe and enjoy our scenic, memorable and historic resorts, we have a 14-days Morgan Heritage experience in Zimbabwe, he said. Morgan Heritage are set to share the stage with Oliver Mtukudzi, Winky D and Freeman.