Reports that disgruntled Zanu PF youths have reportedly indicated the possibility of closing ranks with their MDC-T counterparts in next Wednesday s demonstration against the way in which Local Government minister Saviour Kasukuwere has handled the stands dispute at Ushewokunze Housing Co-operative on the outskirts of Harare indicate that the ruling party can no longer continue to ignore the young people of this country. NewsDay EditorIt is the youths who have largely been affected by Zanu PF s mismanagement of the economy as the majority of them are jobless graduates. Many have turned to Zanu PF not because they like the party, but they see an opportunity to amass a little something for themselves so that they are able to put food on the table.Corruption affects everybody in a negative way as only a few beneficiaries enjoy the proceeds of the filthy lucre. It has become the norm for party heavyweights to always grab large swathes of land in the name of youths, yet the young themselves have not benefited. Hence, they are bound to react in a manner that may be catastrophic.Although Zanu PF has thrown its weight behind Kasukuwere, vowing to block the march against the party commissar, ostracising the youth can only happen at their only own peril. It is an open secret that corruption has become an embedded virus in the Zanu PF establishment, and now that some in the ruling party are feeling its negative effects, it is game on.Zanu PF, with its leadership littered with failed individuals long past their prime, has for long detested the poor and young people, shutting them out and only using them as shock troops to beat up and intimidate opposition supporters especially during times of elections. Zimbabweans like it actually when the youths frustrated at being used and abused by the ruling elite for nothing, are slowly awakening from their slumber and now demand a piece of the cake. Clearly, the issues that affect MDC-T youths are the same that touch Zanu PF youths beyond the politicking. Regrettably, corruption has been allowed to spread its tentacles in the fabric of society and as it becomes embedded, many people pay the high price and, therefore, demand justice. The chickens, it would appear, are now coming home to roost as the young people in Zanu PF appear to be refusing to settle for less while the political heavyweights smile all the way to the bank.