HIGHLANDERS will be looking to ride on the momentum that has seen them collect maximum points in their last six Castle Lager Premier Soccer League matches when they clash with Bulawayo City at Barbourfields Stadium tomorrow. BY FORTUNE MBELEFor Highlanders, who go into round 27 of the league sitting on 50 points, three behind leaders Caps United and two behind FC Platinum, to win the championship, they will need both the Green Machine and the platinum miners to drop points at some stage in the last four matches.Importantly, Highlanders have to win their own matches and coach Erol Akbay sees a perfect record in the last four matches as the only avenue to landing the title.Bosso, like Caps, will be following proceedings at Mandava Stadium, where FC Platinum take on fellow platinum miners, Ngezi Platinum, with keen interest hoping for a stumble by the Norman Mapeza-coached side. Like I have said before, there is no room for mistakes in the top-three teams now. Any mistake now, then you are out of the race, Akbay said yesterday. All we have to do is to continue winning our matches and hope that Caps United and Platinum drop points. It s still a dream. Preparations are going on very well for Bulawayo City and everyone is raring to go. If we win every week, the players are become very confident and it s possible we can come up with something. They are ready for Sunday. I watched Bulawayo City in their last game against Chicken Inn. They play very good football and that is good for us because we play good football also and we look forward to a good game on Sunday. Bosso will be without defender, Benson Dube, who is suspended after accumulating three yellow cards.The former champions had been ordered to play in an empty stadium as a punitive measure following crowd trouble in their match against Chicken Inn, but were expected to lodge an appeal, which would see the judgment suspended.With Bosso s chances of winning the title looking bright, a bumper crowd is expected at Barbourfields tomorrow.Bulawayo City coach, Try Ncube conceded that Bosso would be a tougher side this time, considering their league position and ambitions. This is going to be a tougher match than the last we played against Highlanders. We expect to play in front of a big crowd dominated by their supporters and we are trying to prepare the players for that kind of atmosphere. 