MORE than 1 000 patients with different aliments were last week attended to by a group of doctors on a free medical outreach in Nyanga South constituency. BY OBEY MANAYITIMost senior citizens, who cannot afford health care due to the economic situation in the country, benefited from the outreach, which was organised by the local legislator, Supa Mandiwanzira.Mandiwanzira said it was important to bring doctors to the people so that those who cannot afford to pay for their medication are attended to for free. We make sure that, at least once a year, we have the outreach with a team of doctors. Last year, we brought doctors from India with the support of Rotary International, but these year it s an all local doctors programme, he said.Programme co-ordinator, Admore Jokwiro, the Nyanga district medical officer, said people with correctable ailments have not been visiting medical centres due to of lack of resources.He said 12 doctors participated in the outreach. This is a programme that we do as a service to the community. We do this programme annually, as we try to give back to the community in conjunction with Nyanga South MP, Supa Mandiwanzira. We are covering 12 clinics, but we have seen a lot of people coming to be attended to, Jokwiro said. There are challenges in terms of access, distances they have to walk and the costs. Even age is a restriction, especially for the elderly, who find it difficult to travel to the district hospital. The major problems being attended to are blindness, secondary to carat, which is correctable. There are some people who need surgical operation for lumps and others with chronic conditions. Some of the patients, who came to the clinics in scotch carts, were full of praise for the organisers of the outreach. Such an opportunity is very important in that the majority of people do not have money to go to hospitals. I have also been given some drugs and hopefully they will continue following up on us, William Garapa from Nyajezi area said.Others said they were ordered to go for further assessments and to undergo surgical operations at a later stage.