CAPS United coach, Lloyd Chitembwe has poured cold water on the Harare derby euphoria that has gripped the country, arguing that epic battle set for the National Sports Stadium this Sunday is just like any other the team has played this season. BY MUNYARADZI MADZOKEREAfter guiding Caps United to their first league win over Dynamos since 2009, Chitembwe could also become the first Green Machine coach to complete a double over their archrivals since Charles Mhlauri in the championship-winning side in 2005.But all that does not matter to Chitembwe, whose team is in desperate need of maximum points, leading the title race by two points over FC Platinum and three over Highlanders with four matches to go. All the matches we have played so far in the season have been equally important even the one we played against Border Strikers last week, Chitembwe said yesterday. So for me, the same way we have been approaching matches from the start of the season is the same way we are going to approach this match. Chitembwe refused to ride on the glory of having beaten DeMbare in the reverse fixture at Rufaro Stadium back in May. We don t want to look much into the past because the past cannot come to play the match on Sunday. We will have to work hard for the three points and, hopefully, we will be able to win against Dynamos because they are a very good side despite having a difficult season. Having been involved in derbies against Dynamos in the past, the Caps United gaffer is of the view that a big match mentality alone cannot win games for a team but other important elements such as the mental, technical, tactical and physiological aspects.Caps United will miss the services of top scorer Leonard Tsipa as well as exciting winger Phineas Bhamusi, but the coach believes there are adequate replacements in the squad. Every coach wants to have all his players available, but unfortunately the two are suspended. I feel sorry for them because I know they were keen to contribute to the team at this crucial stage. On the other hand, we have equally good replacements and, hopefully, those we pick on Sunday will do well, he added.