MDC-T MPs have reportedly received threatening messages from an anonymous number ahead of today s official opening of the Fourth Session of the Eighth Parliament of Zimbabwe by President Robert Mugabe. BY BLESSED MHLANGA/PAIDAMOYO MUZULUThis is the second time opposition legislators, who used to heckle Mugabe during his speeches in the august House, have received such messages.MDC-T vice-president and Kuwadzana East legislator, Nelson Chamisa was one of the many MPs who received the messages. You may have false immunity as a group, but remember after that you will be alone again. You will be remembered for a few days, after that you are history. Certa (Latin for sure ), read the message from Hitman .Chamisa said the legislators had resolved not to report the matter to the police after they failed to investigate threats made against them last year. There are pending dockets at the police and nothing has been done. It is, therefore, not worth it going to report when you know nothing will be done, but it is a very sad scenario when parliamentarians are threatened with disappearance and no serious investigations are done, he said.Mkoba MP, Amos Chibaya also received the text among other members of the MDC-T.Party spokesperson, Obert Gutu said: I m not aware of these threats, since I was in a very long meeting. I wouldn t be surprised at all because the Zanu PF regime is a mafia and terrorist organisation that takes special comfort in instilling fear within its political opponents as well harassing, arresting and torturing opposition political activists. Meanwhile, the MDC-T parliamentary caucus yesterday resolved to challenge the appointment of Mugabe s son-in-law, Simba Chikore, as Air Zimbabwe chief operating officer. Chikore is married to Mugabe s daughter Bona and reportedly possesses a commercial pilot licence.MDC-T secretary for local government, Eddie Cross said: We met today (yesterday) and discussed the matter. We will certainly take it up with the Parliamentary Portfolio Committee on Transport. The ministry should be called and explain the circumstances surrounding the appointment. The opposition party wants Transport minister Joram Gumbo to reveal Chikore s qualifications and work experience. We don t think that he was interviewed and was appointed following the proper recruitment procedures. To us, this is gross and appalling abuse of power and patronage, Cross said.