For our nation s sake, I am not trying to be quixotic, neither am I trying to be chimerical. Politics, for me, isn t a youthful diversion. It is what brings out the real me, the utilitarian me. I do not mean to exaggerate the deleterious influence that President Robert Mugabe and Zanu PF have on our politics and economy. But, I am sure that you would probably agree with me that: I don t need to tell you that writers sometimes get ideas, which practical-minded individuals regard as chimerical (Henry Miller, Nexus, 1960). Opinion: Mutsa MurenjeHowever, I am convinced, as Martin Luther King, Jr was, that The ultimate measure of a man is not where he stands in moments of comfort and convenience, but where he stands at times of challenge and controversy . Ours are challenging and controversial times. To address them, we need to confront subjects that many would wish were never spoken about! Hear me for my cause, dear readers.Simba Chikore, Mugabe s son-in-law, has recently been appointed as Air Zimbabwe s chief operations officer (COO). The appointment is coming at a time when unemployment in Zimbabwe has reached, in terms of atmospheric processes and phenomena, stratospheric levels. Independent analysts put the unemployment rate at over 90%, although the government downplays the seriousness of this issue. Our situation doesn t, in any way, show that unemployment is as low as 11% as claimed by the government. Not only is it an insult for a man, who has destroyed and presided over the destruction of our country for the past 36 years, to have his son-in-law appointed as Air Zimbabwe s COO, it is also quite insensitive. It is patently clear that independence, and the crisis it wrought, can only advantage the Mugabes to the detriment of all of us. One thing seems certain though: Mugabe doesn t want us to work, access affordable healthcare, education and training opportunities, have good roads and communication systems, electricity and safe drinking water, as well as proper housing, sanitation, food, and money in the bank. We have difficulties starting our own businesses because he keeps scaring tourists and potential investors. There can be no iota of doubt that the Mugabes revel in our poverty. This is a matter of serious concern, one that requires urgent attention and redress.I would like to acknowledge the bravery demonstrated by Tonderai Dombo at the University of Zimbabwe s graduation ceremony held on September 29, 2016. His act was an effective voice representing the cries of millions of unemployed graduates, who have been reduced to beggars and vendors. Dombo is telling us something here, that: What I do, you cannot do; but what you do, I cannot do. The needs are great, and none of us, including me, ever do great things. But we can all do small things, with great love, and together we can do something wonderful (Mother Teresa of Calcutta).Perhaps it is quite enlightening to consider the following case: On September 28, 2016, Jairos Saunyama reported in the NewsDay that a cable thief had been electrocuted, amputated, and jailed. The thief concerned was Signal Kolowa (27) of Rakata village under Chief Svosve in Marondera. His offence was stealing copper cables valued at $900. Despite the serious injuries sustained during the theft, Kolowa s arrest was swift and he has since received an effective 10-year-jail term for the theft. I am not a judicial authority to assign guilty or innocence. I, however, believe that our criminal justice system should be able to rehabilitate the offender. I am not sure how the sentence imposed on the offender in this case will contribute to his rehabilitation. I also doubt that the sentencing took into account all the material circumstances of the individual concerned. This isn t the first time that I have questioned court sentences. In 2007, I responded to a case involving a 16-year-old Glendale boy (Give jailed boy a second chance), who was sentenced to 22 years in jail for theft and arson. I felt, at the time, as I feel now, that the sentence was inappropriate. I don t know what became of the case, but my concern was the only publication to appear in the State-controlled newspaper, The Herald. There are well-known murderers, who committed the Gukurahundi atrocities, with some occupying influential government positions today. Abductions, enforced disappearances, and political killings are a daily reality in Zimbabwe. The criminals are known and are roaming the streets. Now, there are serious cases of human rights violations in Zimbabwe, some dating as far back as the 1970s in what is today known as struggles-within-the-struggle (Masipula Sithole). Other violations have occurred since the 1980s. We also have cases of electoral malpractice that have yet to be finalised since the 2000s. There hasn t been any justice for the Gukurahundi massacres, Churu farm evictions, Operation Murambatsvina, political violence, and police brutality that we continue to face in our country. Is this the justice we are getting from our criminal and electoral courts? Why do we seem to be enthusiastic when dealing with certain cases and clueless when confronted with others? Melusi Job Mlevu was brutally murdered during the Gukurahundi massacres. Forced to dig his own grave, Jonathan Moyo s father was murdered in cold blood and buried in a shallow grave. Why would reburial of the slain PF Zapu councillor open old wounds, any wounds for that matter? Which wounds are those? Lest we forget, Gukurahundi induces negative mood states. It re-evokes painful memories and emotional conflicts. Survivors and relatives of the slain are often traumatised by questions that touch on unresolved conflicts or other emotional issues that they may not be prepared to discuss. To put this into perspective, let us consider Moyo s response: I m insulted by the suggestion that finally giving him a decent resting place at his homestead would open any wound. the shallow grave in which his soul has failed to rest in peace all these years after he was tortured and made to dig it in the bush, before he was brutally murdered, is an open wound that needs to be closed. It s a painful experience and justice is needed.As I see it, reburial itself remains insufficient and grossly inadequate for families whose relatives were brutally murdered like Moyo s father. In my opinion, it is proper acknowledgement of the atrocities and compensation that would bring closure to this unfortunate part of our history. This issue will remain of grave concern for present and future generations for as long as our leaders are indifferent to the undeserved suffering that the departed went through and their living relatives may be going through at present. In short, The world will not be destroyed by those who do evil, but by those who watch them without doing anything (Albert Einstein). Deliberate steps are needed to change the things that are wrong in our country. We need to introduce new ideas and processes for doing things better now and in the future. We are capable of working together to improve our lives and shape our future. The time has come, and now is, for socio-political empowerment of the oppressed. There is an urgent need to reallocate socio-political power to enable disenfranchised citizens to access the opportunities and resources of society so that they, in turn, will find meaningful ways to contribute to society as valued human beings. May God help Zimbabwe! The struggle continues unabated!Mutsa Murenje is a social activist.