DURING biblical times, there were heresies and falsehoods, as even now, according to the Bible. Is the Church prepared and well taught to discern false doctrines? DEVOTION: Erasmus MakarimayiAlmost on a daily basis, we hear and read negative reports about the Church and improper conduct by those assigned oversight of the born again believer.Some have lost respect of the Church as custodian of truth, hope and comfort. If media reports that congregants are abused are anything to go by, how does one choose a church to belong to?There s quite a considerable number that has resorted to having church on satellite television, shunning attending services and accusing the church of swindling them of their hard-earned cash.The preacher has lost respect. Some think they re safer outside the Church. To answer these questions and address these and various concerns, NewsDay caught up with Evangelist Paul Saungweme.To set the tone for his response, here are important verses for your edification. 2 Peter 2:1 pointedly sums: But there were false prophets also among the people, even as there shall be false teachers among you, who privily shall bring in damnable heresies, even denying the Lord that bought them, and bring upon themselves swift destruction. 1 Timothy 4:1 weighs in: Now the Spirit speaketh expressly, that in the latter times some shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits, and doctrines of devils. In addition, 2 Timothy 4:3-4 paints the picture clearer: [3] For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine; but after their own lusts shall they heap to themselves teachers, having itching ears; [4] And they shall turn away their ears from the truth, and shall be turned unto fables. Against this backdrop, let s proceed.Saungweme has traversed the length and breadth of our nation and the world as an evangelist for over 40 years. He was recently in Australia, after which he headed to Kotwa growth point in Mashonaland East province for an evangelism crusade.Many in the Church see him as the local apostle of open-air mass crusades. He will be hosting a mega crusade in Harare, Zimbabwe Grounds, from Tuesday October 18 to Saturday October 22, 2016.There s much excitement around his coming to the capital city after so many successful gospel crusades held in other cities, towns and growth points which various media houses have reported.He leads Jesus For Africa Evangelistic Ministries which is a member of the Evangelical Fellowship Of Zimbabwe and he s accepted by many other church organisations and pastors fraternals. The following was his response. In my opinion, it seems the church is not doing all that it has to do. It s clear that the great commission the Lord gave the Church is Go; go out there to reach the unreached. This is taken from Matthew 28:19, which reads: Go ye, therefore, and teach all nations, baptising them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. It seems that somehow, the Church is being entangled in a lot of unnecessary issues.There s divergence from the truth and righteousness that it should stand for. Many of our people don t see hope, care and love in the church today that used to reign therein.Many ugly things are happening within the four corners of the church today similar to those that are happening outside the church. The Bible says you shall know them by their fruit. Matthew 7:15-16 records: [15] Beware of false prophets, which come to you in sheep s clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves. [16] Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles? It s not recommended for one to stay home, leaving church fellowship and communion of the saints, but we just have to judge by the fruit that is being produced at the church you belong to, especially from the leaders.The Bible teaches us not to neglect our assembling together like others are doing. Hebrews 10:25 exhorts: Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the manner of some is; but exhorting one another: and so much the more, as ye see the day approaching. We have to know that in assembling together there is encouragement and strength that builds up within us. Hence, I encourage all of us to look for the right assembly to go for church.The truth of the matter in my opinion is that the Church has left glorifying Jesus Christ.It seems to me that on one hand the Church has gone too far in propagating the materialistic message at the expense of the issues of the heart.On the other hand, it is true that some of the leaders have swindled the innocent saints thereby discouraging people from going to church.This is all because the Church has left the essential message that Christ mandated the church.The message as in Matthew 6:33 is, But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you. I firmly believe that if we exalt Jesus, the Lord will provide for all of us in a manner that does not bring into doubt the integrity of the church.Beloved reader, it has been well said. Until next week, grace and peace be multiplied to you through knowledge. You&#8217;re going somewhere. All Bible quotations are from the King James Version. Email: feedback@newsday.co.zw Fellowship with Pastor Makarimayi on Facebook and on www.twitter.com/PEMAKARIMAYI. Telephone +263 712 332 632