Marriage, on its own, is a holy sanctuary. It is a holy relationship or institution and was created not to suffer any negative experiences. Kilton MoyoI have always said that it was designed not to fail and, therefore, it cannot fail. People fail in marriage. Having spoken to so many couples, Christian and non-Christian, I have realised that there are common areas that trouble marriage.Marriage does not trouble anyone and does not cause anyone any harm. It is our things that trouble us in marriage and, therefore, causing marriage all kinds of trouble.I just want to show you a few of these things that have caused many of us untold suffering in a holy place called marriage. I think, what we need as a people is to face up to real issues and stop using marriage as a scapegoat.Marriage is holy, if I may repeat this. What, therefore, are these things that pain us this much?Our past Many people are affected and wounded and bruised by their past. Many things we did in the past tend to have some measure of control over our present, unless we really commit to deal with them wisely.I have discovered that many of us cannot walk away from the past and we allow it to mess us up. Maybe what you need to do is to resolve the past so you are able to live in the present.Many of us are stuck with our past failures, hurts, experiences, disappointments, secrets, and many others so much that we cannot give our present time it needs to serve us.You are married, but you are comparing your spouse with your ex. You are in a marriage, but you are still bleeding from past wounds and failing to enjoy your relationship. Your current marriage has nothing to do with this.Unless you take advantage of something God calls forgiveness , you will soon destroy your current life and future. Let go of the past. Live in the now and not in the past. You cannot change the past, but you can change the now and the future.Commit yourself to a better present and future and not digging graves. Staying in the past has bondaged, not only marriages, but nations too.Our upbringing This also has affected many marriages. Marriage has nothing to do with how you were brought up. Marriage has its own ways of living. What you need to be doing is de-learning so you can learn new things. Your marriage is a new relationship and cannot be run in old ways.Many people fail to transition and harm themselves in the process. If where you come from, you were taught that women are slaves to men, then you have to de-learn this quickly because it will cause you all sorts of problems in marriage.If you were taught women cannot be trusted, then you must throw this out very quickly before you destroy your marriage.If you were taught that a man is your god and cannot be questioned, then you are probably suffering a lot of things in your marriage and you are silent.I am giving examples, but do you get what I mean? Some of us were brought up by very strict parents and we learnt that as a way of doing things. Others experienced violence etc.Others also were spoilt and grew up as mama s boy or dad s girl and these things are haunting us in marriage, where we are supposed to play team and care for the other person more than yourself.I see many couples who are just victims of their spouse s upbringing and nothing else.Different cultural values These are even more severe in disfiguring marriage. You grew up in different cultures which teach very different things about marriage and life in general. This interferes with the way marriage has to be from a biblical point of view.These are also infringing on the so-called independent approach in this generation. They become a serious platform of conflict.People get married across these cultures with every little understanding and only to fight in marriage over these. Many marriages we talk to struggle over these. Maybe there is need for couples to invest time, helping one another with these cultural expectations, that is if you want to continue with them.However, if you really want to enjoy marriage, deal with these things honestly and sincerely. You cannot be fighting over your pasts or mistakes or such things.My experiences show me that there is a serious degree of immaturity in many couples. This means that we need to be helping each other to mature so as to enjoy marriage.Marriage is a place for mature or maturing people; people who want to grow together despite differences; people united only by love and vision and would not allow anything push them apart.Our school of marriage is available to all who desire to learn more on marriage and enrich themselves. You learn through WhatsApp, Skype, seminars and face-to-face chats. Find out more about this and be blessed. Let your marriage be fruitful.At Fruitful Marriages we are there to inspire you and enrich you and challenge you towards wisdom, understanding and knowledge. Make effort to benefit tremendously from our school of marriage. You will be enriched.