DYNAMOS president Keni Mubaiwa (pictured) will on Monday tender his resignation letter, in a development that could plunge the popular Harare football giants into a leadership crisis. BY HENRY MHARAMubaiwa announced earlier this week that he was ready to step down as Dynamos boss following a fallout with the club s board chairman Bernard Marriot.The Harare businessman yesterday told NewsDaySport that a meeting has been scheduled for Monday with the club s board of directors where he will formally announce his departure.The meeting was initially set for Wednesday, then yesterday, but Mubaiwa said his bosses had continuously pushed it further forward. I have made up my mind and I am not going back on that decision. I am stepping aside, said Mubaiwa. I had wanted to meet them since Wednesday, but they kept pushing the date forward. We have agreed to meet on Monday and if they don t show up, they would leave me with no choice, but to call a Press conference and give the reasons for this decision. I don t want to pre-empt now before I meet the board, Mubaiwa said.While he could not give away the reason(s) for walking out, sources said Mubaiwa felt betrayed by the board s decision to reinstate the team s technical bench, whom they had agreed to sack.Mubaiwa last week sackedboth coach Lloyd Mutasa over poor results and assistant coach Murape Murape for breaching the club s code of conduct over comments he made in this publication suggesting that the team s poor showing was due to inadequate pre-season preparations. The former Dynamos midfielder also said the team was composed of poor quality players.However, just hours after Mubaiwa had made the announcement that the technical bench had been sacked following a meeting with the board of directors, Marriot issued his statement to the contrary.Mubaiwa s decision to quit could leave the club rudderless as he and treasurer Webster Marechera were the only two members left to run the executive following the departure of secretary-general Webster Chikengezha, earlier this year.Chikengezha announced his resignation after his car was smashed by a section of the club s supporters who were unhappy with the team s results.But NewsDay understands that he could bounce back as the board wants him to replace Mubaiwa.When asked if he would be willing to return to the club, Chikengezha said: I will not comment on hearsay. People should know that I didn t quit because of Mubaiwa, but I had my reasons. In any case, no one has approached me to that effect and I will only comment if someone has done so. Another name that has been touted to take over from Mubaiwa is that of former chairman Lincoln Mutasa.Dynamos have had a tough season where they are currently fifth on the log standings, 13 points behind log leaders FC Platinum with five matches remaining.They are almost certain of finishing the campaign without any silverware after they were booted out of the Chibuku Super Cup by How Mine in the first round last week.