Fresh from clinching the Ambassador Bruce Wharton Challenge Trophy, Obama Boys retained the Harare Professionals Soccer League (Hpsl) title after collecting 94 points. The flamboyant social soccer outfit supported by Embassy staff played their final match on Sunday coming from behind for silence slogan chanting Edgars Stores Football Club 5-2. Own CorrespondentCongratulating the Obama Boys, Hpsl chairman Tapiwa Mhiko said the competition in this season was tougher than the previous seasons and it was no small feat that the Obama Boys came out tops. During the mid-season break, any of the top 12 teams were in the running for the title and given their position (3rd) we never expected the Obama Boys to retain it, he said. So we congratulate you for your hard work and professionalism. The team received a trophy and players received medals. Douglish Nyangawo of Obama Boys was presented with the Golden Boot award after scoring 47 goals edging his closest rival former Zimbabwe national team player Moore Moyo of Star FM with 41 goals.Obama Boys has its roots at a traffic circle in Alexandra Park where a group of young boys played regular soccer in the evening. They have been professionalized by United States Embassy Public Affairs Section staff; Ambassador Bruce Wharton, the President s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), and Dants Media Private Limited who have combined forces to fund the team s participation in the Hpsl. The Harare International School in Mount Pleasant provided the venue for what turned out to be a hospitable visit for most Hpsl teams. The team paid back the faith by finishing second to Zim Lawyers in their first season in 2013 and coming out tops in successive years. It was not an easy football season for us with 19 other teams in the Hpsl, said Sizani Weza, player president at the club. We had the vision and the team showed desire and the result is pleasant. During the 2016 season the Obama Boys set the highest scoreline margin beating Holiday Inn 18- 0 to surpass the previous record set by Zim Lawyers 15- 0 drubbing of Shellwood F.C. in 2015. Marque signings over the years include Douglish Nyangawo (unattached); Blessing Machingura (from Tren Tyres); Jayson Kalumo and Kennedy Muli (both from Zim Lawyers) have blended well with Embassy staffers striker Weza and dependable goalkeeper Josh McCaleb to produce the Galacticos of the Hpsl. Veteran footballers Allan Johnson, Brighton Choto and Admire Dzukamanja provide the leadership on and off the pitch with David Muzhingi directing matters technical. The core team led by captains Nashio Basandawo, David Muzinde, Munashe Marineri and Nicolas Simeon add strength to a formidable soccer machine that has mesmerized some of their erstwhile opponents in the elite Hpsl.The Obama Boys will celebrate its achievements this Saturday with a Five Aside Soccer Tournament at the Italian Sports Club at 2 pm. The 34 players who were registered for the 2016 Hpsl season have been clustered into various political formations including the Republicans, the Democrats, the Green Party; the Libertarian Party and the Constitution Party. In the past we had an internal duel between the Democrats and the Republicans and the later dominated matches, explained Weza. Because it s Five Aside, we have a chance to get more party names on the Obama Boys team thinking frame. 