THE Dumiso Dabengwa-led Zapu has officially joined the Coalition of Democrats (Code), a grouping of opposition parties formed in May to challenge President Robert Mugabe and Zanu PF in the 2018 elections. BY NQOBANI NDLOVUZapu, in May, said it needed time to consult with its members before joining Code that consists of Mavambo/Kusile/Dawn, Welshman Ncube s MDC, Elton Mangoma s Renewal Democrats of Zimbabwe, Democratic Assembly for Restoration and Empowerment and Zimbabweans United for Democracy.Zapu officials said the party s national executive council met on Saturday in Gweru and resolved to join Code. Zapu deputy spokesperson, Iphuthile Maphosa confirmed the development yesterday. The national executive council was mandated by congress to determine and lead the processes of coalescing with other parties and organisations. All along, Zapu was playing an observing role, as the party awaited a decision, as to whether or not to join from the national executive council, he said. On Saturday, the council ratified and formalised the party s membership to Code. Maphosa said Zapu was committed to a united front against Zanu PF. Officialising our membership status means that Zapu is committed to working with like-minded democratic forces to find a solution to the current democracy and legitimacy problems facing the country, he said. We are committed to ending the Zanu PF regime through a democratic and legally constitutional way that is through the ballot. We, however, are alive to the fact that no single party can dislodge Zanu PF, hence, our drive to bring all opposition parties together and fight from the same corner. Zimbabwe People First, led by former Vice-President Joice Mujuru, Morgan Tsvangirai s MDC-T and the People s Democratic Party led by Tendai Biti, are yet to join Code, also saying they needed time to consult.Maphosa also indicated the party s national executive council had also thrown its weight behind the National Transitional Authority (NTA) initiative being championed by the Concerned Citizens of Zimbabwe.The NTA seeks to provide a soft landing for the country in a post-Mugabe era.