HIGH-riding hip-hop artiste, Takura, kicked off his national and international tour in style with a show at Gweru s Club Eclipse on Friday before taking his act to Bulawayo s Horizon Night Club the following night. BY SINDISO DUBE TakuraThe tour s next stop is in Mutare this Friday before the artiste leaves for his maiden gig in Cyprus on October 7.Upon his return, he will head for Masvingo on October 14 before the grand finale in Harare on October 22.The Stripped Varsity tour headed by One Entertainment aims at promoting the artiste s latest debut EP, Stripped.Takura serenaded the Gweru audience on Friday night with fans singing along to his songs. Bulawayo was also served good vibes and well-choreographed dance moves from his two supporting dancers.The artiste, who was performing in the City of Kings for the first time, dedicated his gig to his family and fans. I grew up at Kingsdale in Bulawayo, but I have never performed in my city. This show is important. I am performing at home for the first time in my music career. I dedicate this performance to my family, my mother who came to wish me luck before the show and also my fans who keep me going, he said.Takura is riding high on all national radio stations with tracks Zino Irema and MaObama. He scooped two awards at the Midlands Music Awards held in Gweru on Friday night, winning the best single and best video for Zino Irema.Takura was part of the duo Afro-pop group, Soul Africa, which rose to fame with their single, Sei Uchida Zvinhu.He said his switch from Afro-pop to hip-hop was a success and shows the level of growth in him. The switch from Afro-pop is a success hence I have had major music sales, on iTunes and also physical copies of my EP. I have been invited to Cyprus, England and also China wants me there, he said. It s not like I woke up and decided to switch. I have always done hip-hop and Afro-pop, but I don t see myself as a hip-hop artiste, but as an entertainer. If I do dancehall and people love that side of me, then I will stick to that because my main aim is to entertain. 