RAUNCHY dancer Beverly Sibanda was on Wednesday night involved in a fight in a night club toilet with a rival dancer, whose group she accused of donning a costume similar to that of her group, the Sexy Angels, NewsDay can reveal. BY GARIKAI TUNHIRA Born Lizzy Junior Zinhu, Bev as Sibanda is popularly known in entertainment circles was reportedly enraged by the rival group s dancing kit at City Sports Bar ahead of her stage performance during the Dancers Association of Zimbabwe s 10th anniversary celebrations.A source, who witnessed the bust-up in the ladies toilet, confirmed that Bev roughed up a dancer, only identified as Tanya, from the all-female dance group, Fearless. She [Bev] roughed up and shoved around a lady from the group Fearless, accusing her and the group of buying a similar outfit to hers, she said.NewsDay witnessed the pushing and shoving by the door to the toilet, before Bev clad in a grey trainers bottom with pink lines, white light-up shoes and a white trainer top walked out and almost pushed over a cameraperson capturing the event.Bev attacked Tanya, who was clad in a grey trainers bottom with black lines and a grey trainers top. Bev s manager, Harpaz Mapimhidze, however, professed ignorance about the fight. I was not there when the fight occurred . . . That was nothing (almost similar gear) to make noise for, he said. Tanya was seen seething in anger the same time Bev was on the stage. Let her finish her performance, I want to teach her a lesson, she was heard swearing to her fellow group members. But before Fearless performance, Harpaz called for calm and spoke strongly against violence. Another Fearless band member, Nyari, could not be drawn into commenting about what had actually transpired. There is nothing to write about there. There is no story, she quipped.A few months ago, Bev caused a scene in the border town of Beitbridge, when she exchanged harsh words with bus loaders she accused of being abusive to women.Early last year, she also hogged the limelight after allegedly clapping Precious Wasu Makwame of Syndicate Girls at Super Label Night Club.