When she was elbowed out by Zanu PF stalwarts in 2014, some thought she had gone into eternal sabbatical. Joice Mujuru did not give up her political career, but she kept on fighting from a corner. The now Zimbabwe People First (ZimPF) president a cool composed, calculative and seasoned politician appears to be the missing link, which all progressive Zimbabweans have been looking for. An observation well-spoken by PDP president, Tendai Biti at a ZimPF rally in Bindura. Through her work in the party, she has proved beyond doubt that ZimPF is not a disappointment. By Leonard Koni,Our ReaderZimbabwe People First leader Joice MujuruMujuru is not new in politics. One would simply say she has seen it all and has learnt to embrace political leadership and good governance.She was purged by Zanu PF because she advocated for a paradigm shift of economic policies, which were detrimental to the country. Mujuru did not entertain one centre of power and governance for personal gains. She never entertained an ostrich approach to issues, which affect national development.A well-decorated war veteran, who could not entertain the wilderness and hibernation before she was born again in ZimPF. Her return into politics has kept her abreast with the needs of the people and initiating developmental projects.The entrance of ZimPF in the political minefield has attracted attention in many spheres. From war veterans, student unions, movements, churches and some other progressive democratic parties. Her entry has also dwarfed and shook the strongholds of Zanu PF such as Bindura, Mutare, Marondera, Binga and Chinhoyi before she got to her ninth rally in less than five months.Having committed herself as the bridge, Mujuru is on a voracious recruitment drive in all parts of the country, holding rallies where she is preaching peace, empowering the young mind and economic revival. The party has maintained a specified programme with effective results.As a former Vice President of Zimbabwe in President Robert Mugabe s government, Mujuru is using her vast experience to garner support around the country. The stone that they threw away is now doing more in addressing and articulating issues affecting Zimbabweans as a whole.She is not detached from real issues affecting the country and she is ready to fix the state of affairs.A society that wants to diversify its economy, achieve industrialisation and socio-economic transformation and the SDGs goals must invest heavily in a strong dynamic and empowered youths and women to drive this agenda.Mujuru has the desire to create an equitable society, where people are treated equally in line with the founding principles of the- liberation struggle. She awaits to correct the sins of the fathers, because she is the bridge that will see the Zimbabwe legacy back to the young generation. Zimbabweans cannot wait for another leader.