Triangle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (0)1 Chicken Inn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 BY KENNETH NYANGANI IN TRIANGLETRIANGLE finally remembered how to win when they earned a hard-fought victory over Chicken Inn in a first round clash of the Chibuku Super Cup tournament at Gibbo Stadium yesterday to give coach David Mandigora some respite.Prior to the match Triangle had gone through a run of four straight defeats and it looked likely that Mandigora would lose his job.Despite good financial support, Triangle have been going through a lean spell and the team management was not happy with the poor results which left Mandigora on the brink. Hardlife Mavundi might have saved his coach, at least for now, with a goal in the 76th minute, which was all they needed to progress to the quarter finals of the competition. An elated Mandigora conceded that the win was a relief, but said he would have preferred it came in the league. I am happy for the guys they worked hard for the win. It is also a relief because we lost four matches in a row, he said. I wish it had come in the league but it is also good to be in the quarter finals of the Chibuku Cup and we are now focusing on our midweek game against Bulawayo City, he said.His counterpart Rahman Gumbo was disappointed to see his team dominate possession but failing to get the goals. It s part of the game but it s not fair, how can you dominate the game and one chance they get they score . Our senior players missed a lot of chances today. It s a story of being in control but you end up losing its part of football, he said. We are still building a team, but we have to understand that cup games are full of surprises. The visitors held a slight advantage over the hosts in the first half creating better chances than their hosts.In the second half Obadiah Tarumbwa could have scored for his team, but he narrowly missed the target ten minutes after the break. Triangle made a timely substitution in the 68th minute to bring on the pint-sized and talented Lameck Nhamo for former Simba Makoni.Nhamo s impact was felt six minutes later after his pass was connected home by Mavundi to beat the visitors goalkeeper Elvis Chipezeze.Triangle could have extended their lead in the second half but Chipezeze made a couple of good saves.