Bloody fights have erupted between rival members of Ushewokunze Housing Co-operative over allegations of corruption and land grabbing by a clique allegedly aligned to Harare South MP, Shadreck Mashayamombe. BY BLESSED MHLANGAA faction led by former co-operative chairman, Ezekiel Karimanzira is accused of fraudulently seizing huge tracts of land from the housing co-operative.The current chairperson, Fungai Nyarota, and his executive, were allegedly attacked with stones and forced to close their offices when Karimanzira and his group reportedly turned violent, claiming they had the backing of President Robert Mugabe.Karimanzira s security guards allegedly handcuffed four members when a scuffle ensued during an ad hoc meeting called to resolve the fights.Nyarota accused Mashayamombe and Karimanzira of being land barons.Munyaradzi Unganai, Courage Shupure, Tinashe Chitobo and Simba Chiwi were allegedly handcuffed by Karimanzira s guards and whisked away in a white pick-up truck for allegedly trespassing on his land. They have been taking land for themselves under a dubious company called Commercial Farmers Industries (CFI). These guys are land barons, who are using their political links to steal money from the poor. We are going to confront them so they stop, Nyarota said.Karimanzira was unapologetic, saying the land belonged to CFI. He threatened to fight anyone who attempted to grab the land from him. This matter is bigger than President Mugabe, (Vice-President Phelekezela) Mphoko and the entire Cabinet, they can t deal with us, he said during the meeting.A stand allocation list signed by Karimanzira, Mutambiramwa Gwara and Leornad Tarwirei shows that Mashayamombe was allocated four stands 5231 to 5234. Karimanzira had four stands allocated to him.Mashayamombe distanced himself from the fights, saying they were being fanned by people who continued running co-operatives and stealing money from people. These people are lying. I have nothing to do with that land row. They want to continue running co-operatives and stealing money from people, that s the problem, he said.