NGEZI PLATINUM . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (1) 2 CHAPUNGU. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 NGEZI Platinum coach Tonderai Ndiraya hailed the impact made by Donald Teguru after the star midfielder s performance of real verve and quality that took Chapungu apart in this Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match at Baobab Stadium yesterday. BY HENRY MHARA IN NGEZIThe winger scored his side s opener, finishing well with a spectacular curling shot in the 33rd minute before providing the assist for James Marufu for the killer goal in the 92nd minute.The victory took Ngezi Platinum to sixth position on the log standings with 33 points, while Chapungu dropped to 10th with 30 points. It was the performance of young Teguru, though, that left Ndiraya pleased and the home supporters in awe. Donald has been doing well for us of late. He seems to have recovered from the injuries which have been stalking him and I am glad that he is working hard for the team, Ndiraya said. He is taking responsibilities and initiative. But it s not just him, all of the players are working hard and doing well and I m just hoping they will continue on that path, Ndiraya said.Chapungu coach John Nyikadzino said: We had a bad first half, but we controlled the second half. However, football is a game of numbers and if you don t score, you don t win. Indeed it was a game of two halves, Ngezi Platinum controlling the first half with Teguru pulling strings in midfield.He put the hosts in front just after the hour mark, curling the ball beyond the diving Roy Mazingi into the far bottom left corner.It was the exciting winger s second goal in a space of four days after scoring the third goal for his side in the 3-1 win over Hwange in the Chibuku Super Cup first round on Saturday.The home side continued to dominate and creating better chances, as Teguru and Patson Jaure had their efforts saved by Mazingi. Chapungu, on the other hand, offered very little going forward and had no shot on target in the first half.However, they came from the dressing room a different side as they pinned Ngezi in their own half.Substitute Patrick Kumbula had his team s first shot on target on the hour mark before Phillip Marufu headed just wide moments later.