ZANU PF Masvingo provincial treasurer and Chivi Rural District Council chairperson Killer Zivhu has urged fellow party members to stop politicking, name-calling and mudslinging, and instead work for the people. By Tatenda ChitaguZanu PF Masvingo provincial treasurer Killer ZivhuSpeaking after handing over building materials for two classroom blocks at Dzingirai Primary School in Nyahombe resettlement area yesterday, Zivhu, who is also chairperson of the Association of Rural District Councils, said Zanu PF members were expending their energy on scolding each other instead of working for the electorate that got them into power. I encourage Masvingo politicians to unite and stop scolding each other and character assassination. Zanu PF people should be united, he said. Let us work for the people. If you cannot work for the people, keep quiet and stop gossiping, rather than divide the party. Let us build the party. Let us work for the betterment of our people. Some are saying things that destroy the party instead of working to achieve our economic blueprint, ZimAsset. Zivhu called for collective action by all stakeholders to develop the school. We need $50 000 to complete the blocks and buy furniture. The pupils are sitting on the ground, he said. I cannot do it alone hence we need to put our heads together for this school. There is drought and the parents cannot even pay fees, they are the poorest people. Let us join hands as I cannot do it alone. Pupils at the school were literally learning in the open, as their makeshift classrooms are in desperate need of thatching. Two classes also share one structure.Headmaster Silas Makono said lack of infrastructure had reduced enrolment as well as trained teachers at the institution, as they were deterred by the conditions. Pupils do not come to school when it is raining. Two classes share one structure. The situation is also bad for teachers as they live in grass-thatched huts. As such, they shun the school and want to transfer from here, Makono said.Zivhu also handed over school uniforms and tracksuits to 300 pupils that were donated by First Lady Grace Mugabe.The school was opened in 2010 and up to now, there has been no meaningful infrastructural development.