Is it not true that you may fall many times before you fly? Why then do you surrender your ammunition when you re frightened by terrifying bombs in this continuous battle? The game of life will always seek for the courageous. The strong at heart. Willing fighters. Men who will not be forced to make compromise no matter what. Motivation: STEVE NYAMBETrue strength is keeping everything together when everyone expects you to fall. No matter what negative things people might say, don t detour and change your destination route. Be vigilant. Throw away the negative shocking thinking. Be strong now because things will change for the better. It might be truly stormy today, but it can t rain forever. When stormy rains socks into your smooth skin of your body, there is a tendency to think that you will be wet forever.That s not it. Don t view life in an amateurish and primitive way. Everything has its season. Winter and summer were all designed for humanity. Mountains and valleys helps to add beauty to the earth. All the things you may face are your apparatus to instill boldness in your life.In your life never permit any circumstance to tie you down. Don t give your eyes the much-coveted sleep. Don t watch the clock ticking, but do what it does. That is, it keep moving. So what s stopping you?Vinod Khosla once said: If there is a 90% failure rate, there is a 10% chance of changing the world. There it is.There was a woman who at a tender age suffered from a terrible disease. Due to this, the doctors told her that she would never walk again. But against all the odds, with no chance of walking on her side, she put up a fight against her own disbelief. Remember if you believe you can, you surely will. When she reached the age to go to college, she upped her belief. What did she do? She set a goal of becoming the fastest runner at the college. True to her words, it happened exactly that way. Not only did she achieve this fate. She went on to become a chief executive officer of one the biggest American companies. Don t limit your potential by unbelief. You can do it. Stuff your ears with logs and ignore what negative people are saying.The potential you possess can do more than previous inventors have achieved. The same God-given potential can produce life masterpieces, legacies that will live forever. Don t waste that talent. Take it and use it, it will turn into purified gold. You have great potential to make you a person with one of the greatest business acumens ever to emerge. There is the challenge. Don t dwell on your past mental draining issues. In them there is absence of success juice. In order to succeed, we must first believe that we can, Nikos Kazantzakis articulates. If you believe you can, then you will. It s not coming from lands afar, but just harboured and secretly coiled in you. Don t seek solutions from somewhere.In counselling the person who has got the solution is not the counsellor, but the counselee. Do likewise. When something is of great value, even if everything is against you, go do it. You can do it by reducing the areas of fear. Turn yourself into a believing magnet. You will face stern tests and worrying moments. But never cut your fuel supply pipe. It gets your vehicle in motion. Anyone has the capacity to accomplish almost anything. Zig Zilgar was a World War II veteran who became a top salesperson and visionary leader at several organisations before becoming a motivational speaker and sales coach. Look at Zagler s seemingly disorderly life pattern: War, sales and finally motivation. What do you learn? Anything is possible. Instead of saying to yourself you can t do it, just turn the impossible into possible.Why not say how can I do it? It can be done. It s within reach. It s your year. Your time to accomplish greatness is here. Dont be a crab which moves in any direction. Take your direction and stance to ooze out more than you have done before. When the Bible says: In the sweat of thy face, shall thou eat bread, (Gen 3:19), what does that mean? Working! Sure man was supposed to work. But which company was Adam supposed to work for since he was the first creation? It simply meant Adam was supposed to be the first entrepreneur. Thus, the God-given solution was deposited in a man right from creation. Stop, watch and think again. You will be surprised with tonnes and tonnes of solutions that will come your way. Don t give up. Be part of the championships equation. Don t surrender.Your previous victory must cheer you up. Drive you to the apex and instil the needed confidence to win. This is breathtaking. Run the race to finish, no matter where others have reached, keep running. Don t tire and faint. Be blessed.Steve Nyambe is a motivational speaker and leadership coach; WhatsApp +263 784 583 761/ @stevenyanbe1. Email: leadershiptouch@gmail.com