OPPOSITION political parties under the banner of the National Electoral Reforms Agenda (Nera) are ready to stage nationwide demonstrations to push electoral reforms in defiance of the Harare police ban. BY BLESSED MHLANGANera convenor Didymus Mutasa yesterday said he would lead the demonstrations from the front in Harare, where the Zimbabwe Republic Police (ZRP) has issued a month-long ban against public marches. I will be in the front demonstrating in Harare, where the police have issued an illegal ban on peaceful demonstrations. We urge all people to come and join this demonstration because this is the only way to guarantee a future for Zimbabwe, he said.MDC-T leader Morgan Tsvangirai said the demonstrations would take place in every district across the country and spread to rural areas, as the political parties galvanise support to push the Zanu PF government and Zimbabwe Electoral Commission to implement major electoral reforms. We can t continue participating in elections which are rigged. As of now, the 2018 elections are already contested because with the ban on demonstrations, we are under a state of emergency through the backdoor, Tsvangirai said.He called on all Zimbabweans to rally behind Nera demonstrations, warning President Robert Mugabe that the MDC-T was ready to up the ante against any forms of repression. We are going to turn on the heat against any form of oppression and the peaceful demonstrations are just one of the ways to ensure that we go into an acceptable free and fair election, Tsvangirai said.According to the organisers, Kadoma, Kwekwe and Gweru demonstrations had so far been cleared by the police. In Harare, Nera has vowed to protest without the clearance.MDC-T spokesperson Obert Gutu said police had no powers to stop the constitutionally-guaranteed demonstrations. The ZRP has got absolutely no lawful right to stop citizens from engaging in peaceful demonstrations. Right now, preparations are at a very advanced stage for the countrywide demonstrations to take place, he said. The Zanu PF regime cannot continue to hold the people of Zimbabwe to ransom. None, but ourselves, will set us free. 