KOMBI crews and touts plying the Harare-Norton route have accused troops from President Robert Mugabe s Presidential Guard of terrorising and assaulting them after being denied free transport from the city last week. BY RICHARD CHIDZAAccording to victims, trouble began early last week when a small group of soldiers tried to force their way into commuter omnibuses and demanded free-rides back home after work.Sources said all hell broke loose last Tuesday when a group of about 20 soldiers in gold-couloured berets allegedly stormed the rank at the corner of Mbuya Nehanda Street and Nelson Mandela Avenue and indiscriminately assaulted the crews and passengers, claiming they had been insulted.A kombi driver, who only identified himself as Thomas, confirmed the incident, saying he had to seek medical treatment at Parirenyatwa General Hospital after he sustained injuries on his eye and bodily bruises during the attack. It s true I was beaten up by soldiers from the Presidential Guard and was treated at Parirenyatwa for inflammation of the eye and cuts all over my body. We never insulted them, but it is because they want free transport, which is difficult these days. We have to maximise on revenues like everyone else, he said.Another kombi driver, who declined to be named, said: They came as usual and wanted to board for free. But things are tough and we have had to make adjustments in order to meet our targets. So they were told that they would have to pay like everyone else. There was a mini-scuffle, but because the soldiers were fewer, they agreed to pay after an angry exchange of words. The soldiers threatened to deal with the crews and the past seven days have been horrific for most of us. They have been here every day around 4pm indiscriminately beating anyone connected to the crews, a kombi driver, who also declined to be named for security reasons, said. It was like a movie because they beat up anyone on sight including passengers, who had nothing to do with the scuffle. Since then, the soldiers have been coming here every day after work and beating up kombi crews, a tout, who operates at the rank, said. Everyone had to run for dear life and it has been like that every day since then. We have colleagues, who are nursing injuries, while other have lost money and gadgets. Contacted for comment yesterday, Zimbabwe National Army spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Alphios Makotore yesterday said he was unaware of the incident. I have been in Bulawayo for days and I am actually travelling back now. I have not heard about that incident and would need to inquire. Please call me on Monday I might have details for you, he said.