The Evangelical Church of Zimbabwe (ECZ) has approached the High Court seeking the eviction of Isaac Soda from its headquarters in Waterfalls, Harare, after his purported appointment to the post of bishop was nullified by the court. BY CHARLES LAITONSoda s elevation was nullified by Justice David Mangota in June this year after making a determination that the process that ushered him into office was in flagrant violation of the ECZ constitution. In its declaration filed alongside the summons in August this year, the church said it was praying for an eviction order with a view to eject Soda who was still occupying the church s property despite his appointment having been nullified. The purported election of the defendant (Soda) was later nullified by the courts in HC3889/15, under judgment number HH339/16 as this court ruled that the purported elections of the defendant to be bishop of plaintiff contravened the plaintiff s constitution and was therefore a nullity, the church said. The defendant, therefore, lost the right to occupy the plaintiff s property as he is not authorised to do so and his claim of being bishop of plaintiff has been dismissed by the courts. The defendant s continued occupation of the plaintiff s property is unlawful as only bishops of the plaintiff have authority to occupy the said premises. The church added: Despite demand, the defendant has refused, neglected or failed to vacate the plaintiff s premises. Wherefore, plaintiff s claim against the defendant is for an order for the eviction forthwith of the defendant and all those claiming occupation through him from plaintiff s premises known as Ministry Centre, Corner 6th Avenue/Milford Road, Waterfalls, Harare, plus cost of suit on a higher scale. However, Soda has since entered an appearance to defend notice and is geared to challenge the eviction as and when the matter would finally be set down for hearing.According to the court papers sometime in April last year Soda, while purporting to be a bishop of the EPZ, and alongside a group of his friends, forcibly ejected Benson Makachi from the headquarters leading to the protracted court wrangle which resulted in the nullification of his (Soda) appointment.Justice Mangota dismissed an application by Soda seeking to be declared the legitimate leader, saying his case was hopeless and that the court could not confirm an illegality.ECZ is made up of 132 congregations countrywide and has another branch in Mozambique. It also owns the popular Karanda Mission Hospital in Mt Darwin.