TSHOLOTSHO FC . . . . . 0 HARARE CITY . . . . . (1) 2 HARARE City recovered from two successive league defeats to easily beat Tsholotsho in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match at Luveve Stadium yesterday, a result that added more relegation worries to the Bulawayo side. BY FORTUNE MBELERaphael Manuvire put the away side in front in the 13th minute when he connected a Jerry Chipangura cross inside the box, beating Tsholotsho goalkeeper Chang Mariyoni.City killed off the match in the 84th minute through substitute Grey Kufandada, who shot past Mariyoni after being sent through by exciting midfielder, Tatenda Tumba, who gave the hosts a torrid time, particularly in the first half.With the victory, Harare City moved to seventh position on the log standings with 35 points.It was a much-needed win for under-pressure coach, Moses Chunga, who went into this match on the back of two losses against Chapungu and Highlanders. It s good to get back to winning ways after the two defeats. It eases the pressure. We came here to grind a result and the boys did just that, he said.But Tsholotsho coach, Lizwe Sweswe had no one to blame for the defeat, but himself, after he started the match without a natural striker, opting for midfielder MacLive Phiri. He waited until the 35th minute to introduce a recognised forward in Mostapha Ponyera.It was Chunga s side that looked menacing from the outset, with Ronald Chitiyo missing the target as early as the seventh minute from a Chipangura cross.In the 27th minute, Edwin Madanhanga had his effort cleared off the line by Zimiseleni Moyo after getting to the end of a Manuvire corner kick.Tsholotsho, who are second from the bottom with 19 points, had their chances too in the dying stages of the first half, with Nixon Gama connecting a Denford Chirwa cross, drawing a smart save from City goalkeeper, Tafadzwa Dube.It was Tsholotsho s second defeat on the trot after they were beaten by the same scoreline by Dynamos last week. We did not play well. The boys did not come to the party. We were slow and did not play our usual game. It will not be easy going forward, but we will work had in the remaining games, Sweswe said.