Harare City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (1) 4 Border Strikers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0DEFENDING champions Harare City began their Chibuku Super Cup title defence with a four-star performance which saw them thumping visiting Border Strikers in a first round tie at Rufaro Stadium yesterday. BY MUNYARADZI MADZOKEREIt was a baptism of fire for nomadic coach Luke Masomere, who was handling his first game in charge of the Beitbridge-based side Youthful striker Jerry Chipangura opened the floodgates for the hosts midway through the first half before Harare City turned on the power in the second half to add three more goals through substitute Ronald Chitiyo, Edwin Madhananga and William Manondo.Harare City coach Moses Chunga hailed the scintillating performance by his side, but noted they were yet to reach the levels he desires. Today we played a blinder of a game, we could have scored more goals, but the most important thing is getting to the next stage. We always want to play the ball on the ground because we don t want to hit the birds flying in the air, so today it was more like it. But I think we just came short of playing our normal again in the final analysis, he said.Masomere, who was appointed Border Strikers coach this week, had no answers to the Harare City firepower. But he said the heavy loss was due to his team s inadequate preparation for this match. It was good to see my team train for the second time; I trained them on Wednesday and today was only my second time to watch them running. As I speak, we have no time because we are fighting relegation (in the league) and I am really happy with what I saw. At least I have somewhere to start from, Masomere said.Chipangura gave the Sunshine City Boys the lead in the 24th minute after Border Strikers goalkeeper Talent Sande fumbled Madhananga s cross from the left as the hosts took a slender half-time lead.Half-time substitute Chitiyo extended his team s advantage nine minutes after coming on with his trademark long-range shot from outside the box.Six minutes later, Madhananga rose majestically to nod home from a Raphael Manuvire corner kick. Manondo completed the rout in the 71st minute when he fired home from an acute angle, with Manuvire providing another assist.Second-half substitute Kabwe Kalunga almost gave Border Strikers a consolation goal, but his headed effort crashed against the crossbar.Harare City: T Dube, J Tigere, H Chapusha, T Chimwemwe, W Manondo, J Jam (T Tumba ,79&#8242;), R Manuvire, E Madhanhanga, M Vengesai (S. Muneka, 79&#8242;), D Mawere (R Chitiyo, 45&#8242;), J ChipanguraBorder Strikers: T Sande (G Chigwandaza, 64&#8242;), M Variso, E Mwinga, L Genti (S Mazumba, 76&#8242;), G Mukambi, M Mwenya, W Nyoni, D Tito, F Mususunye, H Chikosa, K Kwashi (K Kalunga, 64&#8242;)