COMPILED BY WINSTONE ANTONIOOliver Tuku MtukudziOliver Mtukudzi, the ever-green music superstar, is tonight celebrating his life after turning 64 last year with a mega concert that will also feature contemporary musicians, Sam Dondo and Jah Prayzah, alongside jazz songbird, Tariro ne Gitare, at Borrowdale Country Manor. The concert also follows the unveiling of Tuku s 65th album, Eheka! Nhai Yahwe (Enjoy! My Dear Friends), last week. The gig was organised by Thompson Dondo of D&#038;G Events. Lady Eriza Storm Sensational songbird-cum-dancer, Lady Eriza Storm, backed by her Swagga band will take to the stage at Hapizen Plaza in Hatfield tomorrow. Lady Storm seems to have found her groove after featuring in Jah Prayzah s video titled Eriza with her exhilarating dance routines that have seen her becoming the darling of many music followers.Diamond MusicaThe Congolese rhumba outfit, which is enjoying a new lease of life after its members re-united, tonight entertains guests at LA-Rouge Lounge, Westgate Complex in Harare before serenading fans at Club Veritas in Westlea tomorrow night.OskidAward-winning producer Oskid, real name Prince Tapfuma, tomorrow celebrates his birthday with a music bash at The Volt Night Club in Harare. The bash will also see the producer celebrating his recent award at the Midlands Music Awards.Pauline Gunduza Popular urban groover, Pauline Gunduza, tonight shares the stage with Afro-jazz sensation Gary Tight as they take turns to entertain guests at On the Roof, Travel Plaza in the Avenues. The concert will also feature Sebede and Kudzie Kayz.Leonard ZhakataLeonard Zhakata and his Zimbabwe All Stars band tonight entertain patrons at Destiny Night Club at Westlea Shops in Harare. They will be supported by Sounds of Motherland frontman Progress Chipfumo whom he featured on the hit song Madam Boss. On Sunday Zhakata will stage a show at Mutangaz Hideout in Ruwa alongside Leornard Mashiri and Nengoma Express.Sulumani ChimbetuDendera musician Sulumani Chimbetu tonight performs at The Volt Night Club before staging another performance at Commissioner-General of Police s Funfair at Morris Depot Grounds tomorrow.Romeo GasaSungura prodigy Romeo Gasa tonight entertains revellers at Sunset Night Club in Kuwadzana. The musician is currently riding high with his recently-launched eighth album, Bhoo Zvekuti.Victor Kunonga Jazz sensation Victor Kunonga tonight stages a show at Harare Truck Inn alongside wheel spinners DJ Scott and Selekta Gibbs.Transit Crew Top reggae outfit, Transit Crew, tonight performs at Jazz 24/7 at the corner of Sam Nujoma Street and Robson Manyika Avenue in Harare.Nicholas ZakariaVeteran sungura musician, Nicholas Zakaria, tonight shares the stage with Jean Masters as they take turns to entertain merrymakers at Legends Sports Diner in Marondera. Somandla Ndebele Sungura musician Somandla Ndebele and Denda Brothers on Sunday perform at Headlands Hotel.Beverly Sibanda Raunchy dancer Bev and her Sexy Angels outfit tonight entertain patrons at Mzanzi in Shururugwi. They will then head for Bulawayo for performances at Stopover and Club 263 tomorrow and Sunday.Jah PrayzahJah Prayzah tonight stages a show in Kadoma at Odyssey Club in Kadoma supported by dendera musician Douglas Chimbetu. Andy MuridzoAndy Muridzo and Jeetaz Band tonight share the stage with Clement Magwaza at the Intwasa arts Festival KoBulawayo. Ster Kinekor Sam Levy s VillageThe 18th edition of the Zimbabwe International Film Festival roars to life tomorrow at Ster Kinekor Sam Levy s Village in Harare with the screening of a multiple award winning biopic documentary titled Amy. The festival that will run until October 8 will be held under the theme, Reel, Sound and Music. Large City Hall, BulawayoCurtains will come down tomorrow at the 12th edition of Intwasa arts Festival KoBulawayo that was running under the theme Expressions, at six different venues in Bulawayo. The headlining show tomorrow is dubbed Bulawayo Bayethe concert set for the Large City Hall, featuring an array of Bulawayo artistes like Sandra Ndebele, Iyasa, DJ Mzoe, Ditswi, Guluva 7, Mzoe 7, POY, Simunye Simunye and Asaph.Mbare Netball ComplexPopular dancehall studio Chill Spot Records situated in Mbare tomorrow celebrates its fourth anniversary with a music bash at Mbare Netball Complex. The concert dubbed Chillspot Anniversary Champions in Action will feature Soul Jah Love, Sniper Storm, Ras Caleb, Ricky Fire Guspy Warrior, Dadza D, Freeman, Seh Calaz and Kinnah with Judgement Yard and Immortal Movement expected to add flavour to the gig.Morris Depot GroundsAn array of musicians across genres tomorrow will take turns to entertain guests at this year s edition of Commissioner-General of Police s funfair at Morris Depot Grounds. The star-studded line up of performers include; sungura maestro Alick Macheso, Jah Prayzah, Sulumani Chimbetu, jazz sensation Bob Nyabinde, the Charambas, Cythia Mare, Leornard Zhakata, Peter Moyo, Shinsoman, Jeys Marabini, Freeman, Eriah Tembo, Carol Mujokoro and dancehall icon Sniper Storm.Theatre in the ParkTheatre in the Park tonight hosts a Night of Jazz featuring popular jazz sensation Prudence Katomeni-Mbofana.