A top Zanu PF official in Manicaland was on Tuesday embarrassed after he was evicted from his rented premises in Mutare for reportedly failing to pay rentals and rates amounting to almost $10 000. BY KENNETH NYANGANIKenneth Saruchera, who is the party s provincial secretary for administration, had tried in vain to pay the debt in monthly instalments. But RB Investments, represented by Tandiri Law Chambers, refused the offer, accusing Saruchera s Kersarch Investments (Pvt) Ltd t/a Mutare Herbal of breaching their initial contractual terms. The politician had gone for 10 months without paying rentals and rates. In the plaintiff s particulars of claim, seen by NewsDay, under case number 2516/16, both parties went into an agreement of lease for five years to rent premises situated at No 27 Tembwe Street in Mutare.According to the particulars of the claim, the defendant was supposed to pay $600 monthly for rentals and $150 for water. The defendant breached the terms and conditions of its lease agreement by failing to pay rentals in time or at all for the period in excess to 10 months. The said lease agreement was duly terminated by plaintiff on September 9, 2015 on the grounds of non-payment of rentals, rates and water bills, read the claim. The defendant did not contest the termination of its lease agreement in a court of competent jurisdiction. the defendant has, thus, lost the legal right to occupy and use the immovable property in question.The claim further read: The total amount currently due and owed for rental arrears and holding damages is $9 908 and the defendant has no lawful right to remain in occupation of the plaintiff s premises and is as such now doing so without requisite consent. Saruchera, who was served with a warrant of execution against his property, will now fork out $11 613 to pay other related costs.The politicians had written a letter of engagement to the plaintiff, proposing to pay the debt in six months.He claimed that he owed the company $7 202 before proposing to pay monthly instalments of $1 200 and was due to start paying last month, but the bid hit a brick wall, as the plaintiff no longer had confidence in his ability to clear the debt.The politician blamed his failure to service the debt on economic challenges facing the country.