DIVISIONS within the Zimbabwe Women Football administration threaten to hamper the Mighty Warriors preparations for the upcoming Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) finals in November, with some league teams aligned to former Women Football boss Miriam Sibanda reportedly refusing to release players for national duty. BY HENRY MHARAOf the 28 players who were called for camp over the weekend for a preparatory match against Egypt set for Rufaro Stadium this afternoon, only 14, including three goalkeepers, attended the team s training session at the match venue yesterday.Reports yesterday suggested that teams aligned to the deposed Sibanda were reluctant to release their players to fix the football association. Following her ouster from Zifa, Sibanda formed a parallel league, which Zifa has declined to endorse while other clubs remained under the league run by acting chairperson Elizabeth Langa.Clubs that are aligned to Sibanda include army side Black Rhinos, which has the bulk of the Mighty Warriors players, Weerams, Auckland, Mwenezana, ZRP Morris and Blue Swallows.Former Mighty Warriors coach Rosemary Mugadza, who now coaches Auckland, is reportedly part of the clique plotting to sabotage the Mighty Warriors.Langa retained the traditional powerhouses, including Mufakose Queens, Inline Academy, New Orleans, Cyclone, Faith Drive, Chipembere, Conduit, Barrow Jets and Flame Lily.Black Rhinos players who ignored the call-up for national duty include Emmaculate Msipa, Patience Mujuru, Viola Ndlovu, Violet Bepete, Talent Mandaza and Rutendo Makore.Sheila Makoto of Blue Swallows and the Weerams duo of Mavis Chirandu and Sibonginkosi Nleya were also absent from the session.Nobuhle Majika, Ruvimbo Mutyavaviri, Merjury Nyaumwe, Chido Dzingirai, Lindiwe Magwede and Danai Bhobho are the only senior players who attended the team s training sessions yesterday.A source yesterday said: These clubs strategy is to weaken the national team to force Zifa to recognise their league. They have been blocking the players from reporting for camp since Saturday. As we speak, those players are in town waiting for a signal from the clubs to join camp. The clubs want to release them later in the afternoon after the Mighty Warriors have concluded their training sessions so that coach (Shadreck) Mlauzi won t be able to select them. NewsDay Sport attended the team s final training session in the morning where Mlauzi s technical team was working with the 14 players and about 30 minutes after Mlauzi and his team had left, a group of players, including Msipa, Bhasopo, Bepete, Chirandu and Mandaza, arrived in a car driven by a Weerams official only identified as Rambanapasi. Rhinos have recruited the core of the Mighty Warriors with the promise of giving them jobs in the army. The sad part is most of the players haven t been given those jobs. Mighty Warriors skipper Felistas Muzongondi has since also joined Rhinos.Asked about the player apathy, Mlauzi said: I wouldn t really want to touch on that, but we called players into camp and only those that we know were not able to come are the foreign-based players (Palesa Chipendo and Moddy Muwoni) due to the nature of complex travelling arrangements. As of the others, the management is working on it. At the present moment I have 11 outfield players and three goalkeepers and with the visitors coming, and you have that kind of a composition of a team, it doesn t augur very well. This is something that has to be addressed by the management. We just wish there be order in women s football so that we concentrate on building a national team that can do well not just at the Afcon, but in the future. At the present moment, there has been a lot of politicking, a lot of backbiting, things that are not necessary. The players themselves are also distracted by such things. It affects our planning, he said. Had we known in advance that such things would happen, we could have selected other players. If communication is made in advance that certain teams are not willing to release players, we can then make plans to see how best we can play around that. If the situation doesn t improve, we will just have to play (with the 14 players) because the visitors (Egypt) cannot spend their resources coming down here, and we don t play. The association has to stamp its foot and restore order in Women Football so that we step in the right path for success. Black Rhinos secretary General Elphias Mahachi could not be reached for a comment as his mobile phone was unreachable.