BILL Butler says that passion is the oxygen for the soul. I would like to believe that passion is the fuel that drives humanity to reach its goals; it s passion that drives forward to achieve great feats. JONAH NYONIIt is that burning desire that makes an athlete hit the finishing line even when it seems they have lost their breath. It s that fire that makes the boxer throw the last punch, even when they are on the canvas. It s been said that passion is the genesis of genius . All individuals, who achieved great accomplishments were passionate about what they were pursuing.Passion has a symbiotic relationship to ambition, passion makes you hungry for success and to make it. I have never seen a passionate man satisfied up until his desire is met in full.The difference between success and failure is passion. Whenever you mix enthusiasm and passion, success is inevitable. But then, what is passion?United States television show host, Oprah Winfrey s explanation best describes what passion is. She says: Passion is energy, the feel, the power that comes from doing what excites you. To further explain, I have seven points out of the acronym PASSION:P Purpose The famous preacher, TD Jakes once said: If you can t figure out your purpose, figure out your passion. For your passion will lead you right into your purpose. I would like to believe that all human beings have a purpose that was engraved and embedded in them by God. One of the ways to discover your purpose is that purpose is connected to your passion. What are you passionate about? What is that thing that you can do without tiring? What is that thing you would gladly volunteer to do without pay? If you can answer that question, then you now know your purpose.A Ambition People with passion have high and great ambition to attain what they desire. It s not a bad desire and characteristics to set ambitions and targets for you.In this world, we will only live and exist once, because we are all going to die, one way or the other, so why not live life to the fullest, aim for the moon. Even if you fail to touch the moon, you will at least grab the clouds in the sky. Passion drives you to become ambitious. Like the Wright brothers, when people are driving on the ground, you are thinking of a contraption that flies. Ambition is priceless; it s something in your veins.This world is full of negativity and people, who will not support you in chasing your ambitions. So the key now is to avoid people who try to belittle your ambitions.S Success The most successful people in the world that are making it currently, the global shakers and icons, will tell you that they attribute their success to pursuing things they were passionate about.They worked on their passion until people began to pay them to watch them doing the things which they love the most.I usually say, Pursuing passion pays . You must translate your passion to pay. I remember reading the biographies of Tiger Woods and Michael Jordan, which said they used to practice their skills, their passion for their sporting disciplines. Their passion translated to success. If you want to be a success in any field, be it sports, law, politics, engineering, business and many more, you must be passionate about what you do. S Separation For you to be extraordinary in life, there are things that you should separate yourself from. These things include: laziness, procrastination, being disorderly. Avoid all things that my damage your mind such as cliques, drugs and alcohol.I Inspirational I remember during my school days, particularly in secondary school, I had a teacher who taught me isiNdebele. That man was so passionate about teaching that I ended up loving the subject more. This all started because this particular teacher was energetic when it came to teaching, and translated to us, as Winfrey, said, passion is energy .Passionate people ignite other people. They have a burning fire inside them to automatically and effortlessly inspire other people. The flames of a passionate individual rub onto others. You cannot stay close to fire and not feel its warmth. O Obsession Passion makes individuals pursue their purpose and plans. Obsession is that inner drive that tells you that it must be done. Your obsession in life becomes your success. I still remember, my passion was to speak in front of crowds and motivate them. I listened to great speakers, read books that made me better, and ultimately, I started going after what I was obsessed with. N Never settle for less People with passion to achieve their purpose and their goals never settle for average or medium. They have zeal to do more, and progress daily; passion is an appetite for more, it s the ingredient for success.A lot of people are just allowing life to kick and beat them up. Life may be hard now, but never let your destiny be shaped by your past or current status. Never settle for less. I would like tell you that I grew up in a poor family, that even poor people had to call us poor.We would walk to school during winter barefooted for over 5km. This other year, when other students were closing schools for the holidays, I requested, from my school superiors, that I work for my next term s school fees. I know what it feels and means to dig ditches, to fence yards, to mould bricks. But one day, I made up my mind that I would be rich and successful. I took small daily steps. I read about successful people. I still remember the first time I went into Nigel Chanakira s office (founder of Kingdom Bank), my shoes had holes in them, but because I did not settle for less, I wanted to meet him.I read all the very good books I could land my hands on. I sold firewood to get cents to plant towards my destiny. I filled lorries with pit sand and quarry. I was once a security guard.But this was an exceptional security guard, who carried a Bible and a book to read. It was painful, but now it is paying. Stupid children would laugh at us. Girls would not even have said yes if I thought of proposing. They sneered and jeered at us. They thought our lives would end like that.Who would think that one day, reporters would call me wanting to interview me for TV and radio stations, and newspapers? You might be facing that pain now, but you should know that there is more to life.My encouragement to you is: It s time to rise up, dust yourself and walk in your passion!Jonah Nyoni is an author, success coach and leadership trainer. He is the author of Inspiration for Success and Success Within Reach. Email: jonah@classicmail.co.za. Twitter @jonahnyoni.