The government should stop brewing cheap political statements that there is a third hand or force behind the demonstrations currently prevailing in the country. By Leonard Koni,Our ReaderThe people are allowed to protest anywhere in the country as it is enshrined in the supreme law of the country. They have a valid reason to protest as long as it not associated with violence and destruction of property.What they are doing is not to seek attention from the Western donors or funding, but they have genuine issues which they want addressed by the same government.Zimbabweans are not all that stupid and dumb that they can be told what to do by the West. It s hunger, joblessness and poverty which are driving them to go into the streets.The people want election reforms so that there is an even playing field come 2018. Asking for electoral reforms is not a crime in a democratic country. Why is the government pressing the panic button when the National Electoral Reform Agenda is pushing for these electoral reforms? What are they afraid of?These are misplaced assumptions that the people who are calling for electoral reforms are throwing spanners in the indigenisation policy, which they are saying is the driver of job creation and economic turnaround. The government has failed to implement its much-vaunted economic blueprint, ZimAsset, and expecting it to be implemented in the remaining two years is daydreaming.This government has just overstayed in ruining the country and must just swallow its pride and pave way for other progressive thinkers to run the show.It is true that the government is now clueless and thinks that the people s priority is housing, hence, the allocation of land to young people who are jobless and have no money to start developing the stands or build the houses.In 2013 the government promised the youths 2,2 million jobs and three years down the line due to policy inconsistency, they have diverted the job promises to residential stands.Corruption is so rampant and some government officials have been exposed through the mainstream media, but not even an arrest has been effected.Some cases are just swept under the carpet. We have ministers who have built mansions with government funds and yet the majority are wallowing in abject poverty. This is so disgusting.There s nothing sinister with people protesting against an uneven playing field, electoral theft, corruption, poor governance and lack of service delivery.