IF you want your life dreams to come true, don t sleep. Life is purely decorated with a kennel of wonderful learnings. Inspiring stories that will always leave your soul in one. STEVE NYAMBEStories that will tickle your heart and fuel you to move faster than the fastest life contenders. Ever heard the strory of a farmer, who loved his donkey so much?The farmer s favourite donkey fell into a deep hole. Because of the great horror associated with this brutal depth, he decided to bury it alive. He started pouring soil from above. When the donkey felt the heavy load, it started shaking off the soil and stepping over. The farmer continued this seemingly cruel process. But the donkey went on with shaking off and stepping on the soil. So the more the load was being poured, the higher the donkey rose. Finally, the donkey was out of the pit.When you are deep down a dungeon, that s not your end. Fuel your quest with belief and move out. Turn that bitter lemon thrown at you into sweet-sour lemonade.Always know that you are stronger than you seem, braver than you believe and smarter than you think you are. Imagine if the donkey had given up? How about if the donkey had thrown in the towel like most people do? Would that not have resulted in death?The problems you are facing are not permanent. They don t live forever, remember roots become firmer from the shaking that comes from the torrid winds.When you see winds shaking trees back and forth, you may think the wind is very cruel but, it s mother nature giving humanity valuable life lessons. Lessons that will abide with you forever. Lessons that may boggle your mind, but can help you deal with future problems. Age may wrinkle the face, but lack of enthusiasm wrinkles the souls, goes the Danish proverb. Let not your soul be wrinkled by these problems. Problems are a perfect vehicle towards significant life strides. Problems should not destabilise, but must be your vicious energiser.When problems throw cold shivers down your spine, block them with zeal to overcome. Don t forget that there s hope as long as your fishing line is in the water.This means you will be assured of a catch. Don t worry about the time that seems to be passing. As long as your compass is pointing to the north, you are not lost. For I know the thoughts that I have toward you, saith the Lord, thoughts of peace and not evil to give you an expected end declare the Holy Scriptures (Jeremiah 29:11).As you travel in life s journey, always remember that life is a finished designer artefact. With its designer being God, who seems to be quiet when things are going bad. Ever wondered why He is quiet?When you face a difficult question in an examination, the teacher will be quiet because it s you who is being examined. As you are writing your examination paper called life problems , don t be held down by the bandwagon effect.Bandwagon effect This is one of the 37 human biases: It is the tendency to do (or to believe) things because many other people do (or believe) the same .Dare not to believe you have a problem and you won t prevail one day. Your life is always scattered with rise and sink challenges. The ball is in your court. Choose what is the best.Why invite self-pity from onlookers? Turn your engine on. Fear nothing, be aggressive with your problems. One character of problems is that they are not permanent.Thus, they will soon vanish into thin air. Endure and enjoy because that s your moment to create an inspiring future testimony. Who is a better witness, a spectator or a player? It s the latter. Don t surrender, winners don t quit. And quitters will never win over their challenges. Some problems are merely assumptions.Be like Apple, a company that challenged the assumption that a personal computer was functional and not aesthetic , narrates Paul Sloane in his masterpiece How To Be A Brilliant Thinker.Thus, you need to destroy and bury your assumptions. Get off your high horse of assumption and engage in a bareknuckle fight. And fight like a wounded lion.Ken Olse, the CEO of DEC, which was a great innovator in the days of mini computers, once said: The best assumption to have is that any commonly held belief is wrong. Even your problems can only be problems if you accept them as problems. They may try to bury you alive, but they will realise you are a seed ready to germinate. Just go on and germinate. Blossom and fill the air with your sweet aroma scent. Nothing will stand on your way. Be blessed.Steve Nyambe is a motivational speaker and leadership coach; WhatsApp +263 784 583 761/ @stevenyanbe1. Email: leadershiptouch@gmail.com