The internet trolls had spewed vitriol and prayed it wouldn't happen.But it did: Atheists in Kenya (AIK) on Saturday evening held a much-publicised event to promote 'Godless Parenting'. It was all about rearing a child to be thoughtful, inquisitive, compassionate, moral and ethical, socially responsible and successful. And to achieve this without praying every day, reading the Bible daily, taking him or her to church and saying God has all the answers to the human condition no questions or doubts permitted.To many people, that's a mission impossible.The room at a downtown hotel was packed with 50 people (the group has 200 registered members), including committed atheists, agnostics, ardent believers and a lot of curious visitors. Some pitied the atheists, no one denounced them. Given the poisonous online rants, it was remarkably civil, with a lot of give and take and thoughtful questions. Many concerned punishment and discipline and whether it's true, as the Bible says, that to spare the rod is to spoil the child.The message: You don't have to believe in God to be a good parent. In fact, rigid religious belief and blinkered parenting inhibit critical thinking and stunt a child's intellectual and emotional development. Being 'God-fearing' doesn't make a good parent or a thoughtful, open-minded child and adult, they said. To the contrary, it can make for intolerance,What is important is rational, loving parenting, they said.Many in attendance had seen saw the posters, heard the radio and TV interview blitz and heard celebrity rapper Xtatic (Gloria Mecheo) say on The Trend that she's an atheist and not a devil-worshiper. She's secretary of the Atheists in Kenya and a mother who rears her daughter without religious fairy tales."I believe nothing about it (Godless parenting) makes it different from Christian/Muslim parenting, because parenting or even morals have nothing to do with the belief in god or even lack of," she had said. The issue, she observed, "has got people's panties in a bunch".Xtatic couldn't make on Saturday.The panel of atheists included Brenda Jepkorir Sharp, a practicing psychologist and educator (Sharp Perceptions) and member of Kenya Free Thinkers.She was joined by Ssemakula Mukiibi, head of pre-press and technology at a printing firm and a member of Kenya Free thinkers.And Harrison Mumia, President of Atheists in Kenya and a communications, marketing and social media expert at the Central Bank of Kenya."Unless we do something like 'God Parenting', we don't get that much coverage," Mumia conceded about the sensational title. It has upset many people in a deeply religious, overwhelmingly Christian country.AIK says on its website: "Simply put, atheism means the absence of theistic belief. That's it. It doesn't mean anything else. It's not a religion, a philosophy, a worldview or anything similar. It's not the conviction that there no god, ghosts, angels, etc. Rather it is the absence of a belief that these things are real. Atheism is nothing more than lack of belief in a god or gods."Speakers pointed out they could not be devil-worshipers since the devil is a religious construct and they simply don't believe.They said they were not trying to kill religion or to "convert" anyone to atheism. The aim, they said is to "normalise" atheism and create space where all kinds of ideas can be aired and critically examined.After all, Kenya's constitution in Article 8 says there is no state religion."Saying and showing that someone can live a good life without God forces some people to reexamine their own lives and fundamental beliefs," Mukiibi said. Many people feel their truth is under attack and they, in turn, become defensive go on the attack."Religion tells us who we are, why we're here, where we came from and where we're going," Mumia said. "A child who asks who created the world, the moon and stars is often told 'God' and there's nothing more to be said.""'God' is actually a lazy explanation that can actually damage a child and kill curiosity," Mukiibi said. "It's important to lead a child and ask, 'What do you think?'"Many African children are physically punished and warned that God too will punish them, in the belief that pain and fear will make them better people, psychologist Sharp said."The problem with spanking is that it's lazy, emotional parenting and doesn't focus on teaching or understanding," she said.Punishment is not the same thing as discipline, she said. Pain may change behaviour but cause long-term damage. Parents who resort to physical punishment are usually not self-aware, Sharp observed.An attentive, rational parenting style that's neither permissive nor authoritarian tends to produce better results, she said.What spanking does teach is that might makes right and children who are spanked or beaten often grow up to be adults who beat their own children, the speakers said.Grace, a retired registered nurse, midwife and counsellor, attended because she was extremely curious, though she said her husband would never approve of her visit. She stayed long afterward and talked to the atheists."I just can't understand how you can live without God," she said. "God is my life, my hope, my everything. He has the answers. Life without God would be empty."Atheists responded they don't need God to find life worth living, enriching and fulfilling. Human connections and interactions, the sunrise, daily work and challenges, thinking about the exploration of space, all kinds of things make life meaningful and bountiful. After the session, Grace said sympathetically, "I still don't understand how they live alone without God. They seem happy, but I wonder."I came here because I really want to understand and I don't like it when people condemn others and judge without understanding. I think we should all listen to each other's ideas."Grace said she has many friends who are not Christian and has gay friends as well, adding, "I'll defend them all against cruel talk."And now some of her friends are atheists.