Geraldine Robarts is an artist who has lived in East Africa since 1964. Her wealth of experience has seen her teach art at Makerere University, Uganda and at Kenyatta University in Nairobi, Kenya. Her work is in many collections worldwide, both private and public, including in many public buildings. It has a huge range from figurative to abstract and she works in oils to achieve really colourful and dynamic results. She describes herself as continually pushing the boundaries and she has a fearless approach to trying new techniques and new ideas. A ten-hour-a-day worker, she is always learning and exploring.Robarts has an upcoming exhibition at the Village Market Exhibition Hall from October 21 -31 entitled Window to the mind . We have been privileged to have a preview of the exhibition. It ranges from abstract work which needs a long time to immerse yourself in, to paintings which seem more familiar subjects, but there are ideas hiding behind the familiarity. With all of them one needs to open one s mind because they are there to communicate ideas to you.Ten years ago, Geraldine experimented with the creation of paintings based on the same techniques used in road signs. They blazed with light just like reflective road signs. This time she has been experimenting with transparent resins which also create a change in what you see. It certainly works and we are hard pressed to name any other painter worldwide who has discovered what she has.From the preview, one oil painting stands out. The one of anthuriums. At first sight, the painting looks just like the plants in Geraldine s beautiful garden. But look for longer and you will find it is actually communicating a story of humanity, of curing heart disease, and is actually about our human condition. It has the ability to grow with you and give a daily insight on life.This exhibition is a masterclass in communication and you will most certainly enjoy the insights you will find and come away enriched. It will open up your mind and allow you to explore a very positive experience.