Deputy President William Ruto yesterday urged the United Nations to reform itself so Africa can get a permanent seat on the Security Council.During a meeting with UN General Assembly President Peter Thomson in New York, Ruto said it is high time the world agency changed the way it conducts business. The DP said it is bad that Africa does not have a permanent seat on the 15-member Security Council despite it being a key member of the UN. Only the Big Five have permanent seats and veto power. They are the US, Russia, the UK, China and France. We are keen as a country on matters to do with UN reforms. We can share what we think the UN should look like. It should be more open and democratic, Ruto said. I am confident under your leadership, the United Nations General Assembly will advance its pivotal work during this critical era in the international arena. The African Union has said, While the world has drastically changed since 1945 [the year when the UN was established], the United Nations has been stuck, driven along by the archaic systems which threaten to alienate the majority of its membership. Apart from getting a Security Council seat, the AU members also want the General Assembly to select the UN secretary general and not to be a rubber stamp of the Security Council.Many countries have questioned the rationale of Europe having three countries as permanent members of the Security Council yet Africa has none.Germany also wants a permanent slot, as do India and Brazil.Despite resistance from the five permanent members, the heads of state and governments of the African Union adopted a resolution in January to have Africa s reform package accepted. Yesterday, the President of the Assembly acknowledged the UN had frustrated Africa s reform efforts and promised to help push for them. I am aware of the frustration African countries face despite being great parties, Thomson told Ruto.The former ambassador said he had noted issues including underrepresentation, and will do his best to ensure Africa is happy. Africa s contribution is key. I cannot promise miracles; but I will try my best. How do we get more flexible such issues are important, he said.Ruto defended Kenya s decision to close the world s biggest refugee camp, Daadab. He criticised world leaders for abandoning the more than 600,000 plus refugees.