Battered woman Jackline Mwende, whose hands were chopped off, has been flown to South Korea to be fitted with&nbsp;myoelectric prosthetics.The 27-year old left at 5pm aboard a Swiss airline for the operation that&nbsp;LG Electronics will pay for.Mwende, her nurse Helen Kanini&nbsp;and LG&rsquo;s management team addressed the media at JKIA before she left for the 10-day treatment.Michael Maru, chief orthopedic surgeon at PCEA Kikuyu Hospital, who was also present, said all of the surgeries and the counseling Mwende has undergone were successful.Maru said she will be trained on how to use the limbs&nbsp;before she is flown back to the country. He said they expect her to have returned to an&nbsp;80 per cent level of normal activity by then. Mwende said: &quot;I am so grateful for this far God has brought me. I hope the process will be over soon so I can resume my normal activities.&quot; The woman thanked the&nbsp; Machakos government and all her sponsors for committing their resources. But she expressed disappointment that her husband&#39;s family did not visit her all through.LG promised to cover the woman&#39;s surgery and medical expenses, and&nbsp;pay for her transport to and from hospital. Marketing manager Moses Marji siad the company had set aside Sh3 million for Mwende&#39;s full treatment. He said the amount included all the expenses incurred at Kikuyu hospital and other facilities. Marji said the electric limbs were&nbsp; very durable but that they were holding discussions with the hospital for an insurance cover for their maintenance. Mwende was the talk of town after she was allegedly attacked by the husband John Ngila after failing to fall pregnant.Her hands were cut off and her head hacked with a machete&nbsp;about the fact that she had not fallen pregnant in seven years of marriage. Read:&nbsp;Locals give new twist to Mwende&rsquo;s attack storyMwende said she was surprised by the attack as doctors told the couple she was fertile while Ngila was impotent.Sources close to her family said the two had not lived together for a year. She was living at their home while her husband had rented a bedsitter in Masii town.The woman has received assistance from various quarters inlcuding the Machakos government and women&#39;s rights activists.More on this:&nbsp;Battered Jackline Mwende gets Sh30,000 monthly stipend from MachakosAlso read:&nbsp;Help comes as battered wife reels from pain