It is now more than three years since I took over the mantle of leadership as the Governor of our great county of Kiambu. I have to confess that it has not been an easy ride but I thank the people of Kiambu who have stood by my government for all these years.We have some people, some outsiders, who are taking advantage of the upcoming elections to try and discourage the people of Kiambu by claiming we have not achieved anything. Some of them have ganged up with some local leaders to confuse the people of Kiambu claiming that this administration has failed. The truth is that we have achieved a lot despite all the challenges and we continue to focus on achieving even more. For us, we are focused on ensuring that we improve the lives of the people of Kiambu and I am not going to let any detractors tell our people otherwise. One of the very first initiatives was to integrated ICT in our financial management system by installing an automated receipting and business intelligence system. This has helped us grow our revenue from as low as Sh1 billion in 2014 to Sh4 billion currently.When you go to the roads and public transport utilities, we have spared no efforts in opening up new roads and improving existing ones. Our goal is to ensure that there is cheap and efficient movement of goods and services so that we can ensure that all our residents benefit.This improvement on the road and transport sector are to ensure that our farmers are able to get their produce to the market on time, our children spend less time on the road to and from school and the general movement of Kiambu residents from one place to another is eased. We have rehabilitated approximately 1,400km of rural access roads and initiated the construction of new and modern roads in various parts of the county. Currently, we are also working on converting certain single carriageways into dual carriageways.My administration has also installed 275 street lights using 80Watt energy saving LED across seven urban centres in the county with the installation of over 70 high masts using 200 Watt LED currently ongoing. Some of our detractors have been claiming that fire safety and rescue has not been relegated to the back. On the contrary, we have increased our fire engine fleet by a further five trucks and are in the process of constructing three 24 hour fire stations in Githunguri, Limuru, Thika, Kiambaa and Ruiru Sub-Counties. Water and Sanitation has also been a critical focus for my administration as these are core to sustainable development. More than 3,000 residents from Thogoto are benefiting from improved water services as a result of the construction and rehabilitation of water tanks and kiosks.A pump house has been completed in Kikuyu and Kabete cubcounty and new water pipes installed in the Mwiki - Githurai Area. There a lot more projects that we have put in place to ensure all Kiambu residents access to clean and safe water.My administration inherited several dilapidated health facilities. We have continued to invest heavily in rehabilitating these hospitals in order to ensure that they are capable of delivering world-class services to our people.Renovation works are currently underway in 15 health facilities ranging from Level 4 Hospitals to dispensaries across the county. In addition to this, we have constructed a total of 21 mother and child health clinics and are in the final stages of completing a 400-bed capacity reproductive health wing at Thika level 5 hospital.To ensure the best health services for our people, we have procured and distributed medical equipment to 86 facilities. For a long time, our young people were being distracted for being idle and chose the life of crime or drug abuse. But my administration has ensured that this becomes a thing of the past by investing in youth and sports affairs.To facilitate these young men and women, my administration has upgraded Thika, Ruiru, Limuru and Kirigiti stadiums and trained 120 football referees and coaches and another 120 volleyball referees and coaches to officiate county leagues and matches at the ward level.With respect to youth empowerment, Kiambu was the first county in the country to establish a Youth, Women and Persons with Disabilities Enterprise Fund in 2014. In the past three years, we have seen successful applicants through a rigorous financial training boot camp to ensure they are skilled in basic financial management and soft business management skills prior to disbursement of funds.