When President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto coasted to victory in the 2013 Presidential and General Election they not only shocked the World but also debunked several myths. The first myth was that a persons or persons facing International Criminal charges were unelectable. The second was that Kenyans would not and could not elect a third Kikuyu President of Kenya. The third was that the Kalenjin would never work with the Kikuyu after being badly mishandled by the NARC government and the 2007 post-election violence. All of these myths had been elevated to the level of tenets or mantra by the Opposition. Indeed the worst case scenario to the Opposition was an election re-run after failing to secure the 50+1 Constitutional requirement. They were so sure of this or a similar outcome that when results trickled in that UHURUTO had won the election outright Opposition leaders went into near shock!How did the dynamic duo manage such a monumental feat? For starters they created the narrative that they had been sacrificed at the International Criminal Court by some ill-intentioned politicians bent on usurping leadership of the Republic of Kenya when all they had done was stand firm as defenders of their respective communities. The narrative caught on like a wild-fire and solidified the Kalenjin and GEMA communities to vote almost to man for the two. That narrative coupled with the fact that the immensely wealthy Kenyatta family opened the purse to and for Uhuru Kenyatta helping oil one of the mightiest election campaign machines ever seen in independent Kenya. The result caught the Opposition trio of Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetangula absolutely off-guard.A lot of water has since passed under the bridge as Uhuru Kenyatta prepares for his second and final assault at the Presidency. All things being equal this should not be an onerous undertaking as currently the main opposition appears to be in some form of self-induced political paralysis. The odds in his favour are at their best ever since 2002. Deputy President William Ruto in the meantime is laying the groundwork for 2022. Often misunderstood and regularly underestimated by opponents William Ruto has been the silent political King-maker in Kenya for the last one decade. One amongst many of Retired President Daniel Arap Moi s political prot g s he undoubtedly turned out to be his most perspicacious pupil. William Ruto finally is about to stake his claim. Ruto has in recent times bestridden the country like a hurricane often leaving political disruption in his wake. His political style has been intimidating to his colleagues in the opposition where he makes regular forays and almost always comes out with quarry. Our national Opposition may not agree on a lot of things yet one mutually agreed issue that is emerging is that Ruto must be tamed. His recent political moves amount to overkill. Antagonising or alienating all other leaders is not good strategy. There is now talk of a lifestyle audit on Ruto.Word on the Opposition grapevine is that Kenya has a history of electing the least aggressive/controversial personalities who include an initially timid Daniel Arap Moi; Mwai Kibaki in past days often described as a coward and a political rookie also named Moi project, Uhuru Kenyatta. They also state that Ruto in helping debunk the myth of a 3rd Kikuyu President inadvertently created the possibility of a 4th. To add insult to injury he has ridden roughshod over leaders at the Rift Valley, Coast, Nyanza, Western and parts of Eastern thus limiting coalition options in event of a fall-out in Jubilee! William Ruto an ambitious, proactive and meticulous operator has undoubtedly created a host of political foes. Whether they can slow down his upward mobility is a matter for conjecture. Then there is that issue of whether the GEMA nation will repay their debt by electing him in 2022.DAUDI MWENDA.