First Lady Margaret Kenyatta on Wednesday received the visual presentation and model of the Sh2.2 billion Beyond Zero referral hospital to be constructed in coming months.State House did not disclose where or when the model hospital would be built or give it timeline. The state-of-the-art facility incorporates all the features of a modern hospital. It also has special features that include the components of wellness, the promotion of the family and takes special care of those with physical problems.The new facility will cover 20,000 square metres. It will have 150 beds, seven beds in the ICU and specially landscaped healing and therapeutic gardens.Although the hospital is an all-inclusive facility, it places special focus on mothers and children. There are facilities for the emotional wellness of women rescued from gender violence and female genital mutilation-related health issues.A modern bus station will be built right outside the doors of the hospital to ensure easy access by all patients. The visual impressions of the hospital were presented to the First Lady by architects from Lexicon+ION and members of the Beyond Zero Secretariat.The First Lady described the concept as great work . You got it (concept) right. I love it. I can see (the hospital ) already. Thank you, she said.The First Lady talked about the hospital for the first time last August, when she toured Aiiku Hospital in Tokyo, Japan, which specialises in providing high quality maternal and child medical care.During that visit, she presented her vision of the Beyond Zero hospital to Jica President Dr Akihiko Tanaka.Other features of the proposed hospital is the use of Green architecture, maximum use of local natural materials, use of solar energy for lighting and use of treated rainwater for its daily operations. The hospital will also have both blood and human milk banks.Earlier, Japanese Ambassador Toshitsugu Uesawa paid a courtesy call on the First Lady at State House, where he delivered a personal message from Mrs Akie Abe, the wife of Japanese PM Shinzo Abe.In her message, Abe said she looks forward to visit Kenya this weekend during the Ticad conference. The Japanese premier is expected to attend the conference. She also said she will be happy to prepare and serve Japanese cuisine to the VIPs at the Intercontinental Hotel.The ambassador said his country appreciates the great leadership by President Uhuru Kenyatta that has enabled the Ticad conference to be held in Africa for the first time.