Everton Vs Man United, Today 7:15pm (FA Cup semi-final),My Prediction: Toffees.. 1 Red Devils...1,Everton have really been under performing this season so it s mind boggling to think how they found themselves in the FA Cup semi-final. They have failed to impress in the league having won just two of their last ten matches. They did get the expected red card in the Merseyside derby but didn t really provide much competition to their neighbours. Man United, in my view, are also surprise inclusions in the FA Cup semi final given that they have also had a pretty difficult and inconsistent season. Despite having Wayne Rooney, Marcus Rashford and Anthony Martial in their line up against Crystal Palace midweek; their two goals came from unlikely sources. Their front line needs to step up if they are to get to the final of this competition. Even though Everton have been mediocre in the league; they may step up today knowing that winning this will restore them some pride this term. Ramiro Funes Mori is suspended following his sending off at Anfield; but the person who needs to step up today is Romelu Lukaku. Something tells me he will! Liverpool Vs Newcastle, Today 5pm,My Prediction: Reds...2 Magpies... 2This will be an interesting tie. Rafa Benitez will be up against his old side and will be on familiar ground. The Magpies boss has brought a bit of self confidence in the side who are beginning to believe that they can survive relegation. They walloped Swansea 3-0 last weekend before holding Man City to a 1-1 draw. Impressive in my book. But Liverpool are on fire. After their heart stopping performance against Borussia Dortmund nine days ago, they beat Bournemouth 2-1 before making it clear who owned the bragging rights in Liverpool. Sadly Divock Origi is out injured for a while but Daniel Sturridge proved on Wednesday why any club would be lucky to have him despite his injury problems. This is going to be another tough and exciting game. All I can say is that it s tough facing any team in the relegation zone right now.Sunderland Vs Arsenal, Tomorrow 4:05pm,My Prediction: Black Cats.. 1 Gunners...3Now just like Liverpool, Arsenal are in trouble as well given that The Black Cats are also fighting to get out of the relegation zone. A win here today will see them do just that but sadly, we won t let that happen. We will, however, help them next week against Norwich but not today. Arsenal have little to fight for now; In fact just a third place finish; and we play better when there is no pressure. Alexis Sanchez, Hector Bellerin and Aaron Ramsey were in great form on Thursday and I m confident that we will win all our remaining games despite there being nothing to play for. I know Big Sam really wants to survive the cut but he ll have to wait until his next appointment to add points to his campaign. Sorry but it s just the way things are. Arsenal always finish strong; I repeat; when there s nothing to fight for. 