Patrick Ntutu regards Deloris Jordan as his second mother.Deloris, the President of the Michael Jordan Foundation, is also the mother of legendary Basketball Star, Michael Jordan.The MP met the star s mother in 1993 when a group of tourists from Chicago, US, toured his village. The visit turned my life for the better, says the MP nostalgically.Deloris led the team, which included students from Chicago public schools, for an African tour.The students had won a city-wide contest in the US which involved showing improvement in school grades, good attitude and school attendance and their tour of the world famous Masai Mara included his villageAt the meeting, Deloris offered Ntutu a scholarship through the Foundation to pursue his University education.The MP had completed his secondary education two years earlier and had missed a place in the Kenyan public universities.Incidentally, the scholarship was initially meant for his sister, Beatrice, but she declined and recommended Ntutu instead.Armed with the scholarship, Ntutu flew out in 1994 to pursue a course in Hotel Management but Deloris would hear none of it. She warned me that if I insisted in pursuing that course she would put me in the next plane back home, he says.He then opted for a Degree in Business Administration.He would stay in the US for eight years within which time he worked at a restaurant owned by Michael Jordan for three years.On his return in 2002, he worked as District Officer rising to the position of Acting District Commissioner, before elders approached with a request to contest in the newly created Narok West Constituency. Initially I was reluctant but they reminded me that I am a son of a paramount chief, he says. Apparently they had settled on him out of his many siblings since his elder brother had been chosen to go for the Narok Senate Seat.Since his election as MP, he has helped in the construction of 10 secondary schools; purchased eight buses for schools and put up a CDF office block at Lemek.The construction of Narok West Technical Institute, five dispensaries and three maternity wings constructed and four major roads in his constituency have been opened up.He is supporting over 200 needy students in secondary schools and another 60 students in various.He would like to replicate what he has done in his constituency in the entire Narok County when he becomes the governor in 2022.He hopes to be President once he completes his stint as governor. *********1970: Born at Olepolos Village, Olololunga area, Narok County.1980: Started his education at the Lemek Primary School where he did his KCPE in 1987.1988: Narok High School where he did his KCPE in 1991.1994: Roosevelt University, Chicago, US, graduated in 1996 with a Bachelor s Degree in Business Administration.1999: Roosevelt University, Chicago, graduated with Master Degree in Business Administration (Finance) in 20002003: Olchoro-Oruwa Wildlife Trust, Chief Executive Officer until 2006.2006: Public service Commission, District Officer, served in Magarini, Malindi Divisions for six years.2012: Resigned from Public Service to join politics and was elected Narok West MP on URP ticket in 2013.2013: Nominated to sit Departmental Committee on Administration and National Security and the Budget Committee.2014: The institution called marriage is the most important institution on earth. The smallest unit of a country is the family and then you go to the village, division, location, district, county and then country. If this institution is not strengthened and defined in law, we will end up having problems that we are having in our country. 2016: We have noticed with a lot of concern that the problems we encounter in the county governments are because the members of the county assemblies cannot oversee the governors. Most of them do not understand the budget or the funds they receive. A story has been going round that a certain governor in the northern eastern region tells his county assembly that this is unconstitutional, when he does not want a particular item in a budget. He tells them that because most of them do not understand and have not gone to school. Governors misappropriate funds simply because no one can question their budget. Putting a requirement for a member of the county assembly to have, at least, a diploma is something, as a country, that we should support. 