Deputy President William Ruto s team has identified four counties in the Rift Valley as the major battlegrounds in selling the Jubilee Party.The party will focus on Bomet, Baringo, West Pokot and Trans Nzoia counties, where Jubilee could face stiff opposition from Kanu and Chama Cha Mashinani. Nandi Senator Stephen Sang says they will go flat out to ensure the Jubilee Party sweeps all seats in the region. We have marked all areas to ensure we will give no opportunity to those who think they will fight Jubilee in this region, he said.Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto has also identified the same counties, where he will open offices to coordinate affairs of his party. We are planning for next year and in two months we roll out our programmes, he said.Both DP Ruto and Kanu chairman Gideon Moi are already engaged in a battle to control politics in Baringo and West Pokot counties.Two weeks ago, Moi and Ruto separately hosted delegations of supporters from West Pokot, indicating heated rivalry between the two Rift Valley political supremos. Ruto hosted the Jubilee team led by West Pokot Governor Simon Kachapin, who recently defected from Kanu. Moi hosted his allies in the region led by West Pokot Senator John Lonyangapuo.Kachapin, who was elected on a Kanu ticket, will be defending his seat through the Jubilee Party but Lonyangapuo will be vying for governor through Kanu. The defection of Kachapin to Jubilee did not shake Kanu in any way because we are stronger in Pokot than before, Lonyangapuo said. He is the Kanu pointman in the area. The race for governor is turning out to be a two-horse race between Kachapin and Lonyangapuo.Kachapin said they fully support the DP and the Jubilee Party. However, Lonyangapuo said Jubilee has failed and much of the county s resources have gone to waste through graft.In Trans Nzoia county, Jubilee is making efforts to gain ground against Cord. Jubilee has already brought into its fold businessman Kakai Bisau, who is Governor Patrick Khaemba s key opponent for the county top seat. Khaemba will defend his seat through Ford Kenya. Meanwhile the recent Jubilee merger has caused confusion at the Trans Nzoia assembly where the party now holds both the majority and minority seats. MCAs are demanding elections to pick new leaders. Majority leader Alfred Weswa and his minority counterpart Hillary Kemei were elected on New Ford Kenya and URP tickets, respectively.