Allan Okengo Wadi who was jailed for insulting President Uhuru Kenyatta through his Facebook page finally graduated at the Moi University on Thursday.He was given powers to read and do what appertains to the Bachelors degree in Political Science and International Relations.When contacted, he told the Star that he was to graduate in 2014 but could not due to financial problems. "Moi University is usually strict on fees and someone cannot graduate without clearing the same," he said on phone.Wadi has been an ardent critic of the Jubilee government whose leadership he believes has let the people down.When asked how he feels after graduating at last, Wadi said that: "We are humans controlled by God. We might have our own plans but God's plan and time takes the day,"He said: "I feel relieved and happy because graduating has been my dream. The government's frustration and intimidation were just like dashing squirrel which could not make me lose the sight of the antelope," He shot to the public limelight when he castigated the Uhuru administration as only good in lip service without much to show in terms of services to citizens. His stance has made him be branded anti-government, and at some point was booked for posting what the state termed as inappropriate material.Wadi was convicted by resident magistrate HW Kaguru of the Milimani law courts on his own plea of guilty. On January, 2014, he admitted two counts of undermining the authority of a public officer and posting hate speech on his Facebook.He was arrested on December 31, 2014 in Busia county on his way to Uganda by detectives from CID headquarters.Senior state counsel Daniel Karuri at that time said Wadi committed the offense on December 18, 2014. He was accused of spreading a message deemed hateful.Also read: Blogger charged with hate speech in anti-Uhuru post, blames mental condition The message read: "For the security to be tight, Kikuyus from other regions need to be deported to Central region. To fight terrorism, Kikuyus must be deported to Central. For Kenyans to enjoy their freedom, Kikuyus must be deported to their central region," Karuri argued that the posting was intended to stir up ethnic hatred between Kenyan communities on the one hand and the Kikuyu community on the other.Wadi was also accused of posting the defamatory words: "The way that silly bill proposed by 'silly president' was passed by silly jubilee skunks and assented by the same silly president was wanting the speed and temerity of the process shows how the bhang president is desperate," He pleaded for leniency, saying he was mentally disturbed when he committed the offense. Wadi was ordered to pay Sh200,000 fine or serve one year in jail for the first count, and serve one year without the option of fine for the second count. He was later freed.Read: Student who insulted Uhuru freed