Mulembe Consciousness. Kuria Revivalism. Abagusii Renaissance. Ogiek Patriotism. Nyikwa Ramogi Rebound. House of Mumbi Ascendant. Akamba Confederation. The Tower of Babel had some order to the biblical confusion.A decade ago when Ababu Namwamba was salivating for elective politics, he claimed a larger vision. The vision has since faded into a passionate desire for a Luhya voice in government . The Budalang i MP carries the burden of a newfound Mulembe Consciousness . He is looking for a homegrown solution for our people . The bug of ethnic patriotism has bitten the man who once cherished tribe-neutral values.The bug bit Ababu when he felt unappreciated in his party of about 10 years. The General has deserted to pursue Luhya unity. He claims the burden of history has fallen upon him to lead ethnic secession from the political mainstream to the fringes in order to rebound. Ababu arrived in the House a budding firebrand who had higher mountains to climb. He was excited he had climbed one, but he was also disappointed. Ababu, like others who had voted opposition icon Raila Odinga for president, was defiant. Here was a rebel with a cause bigger than the tribe. The man, who would have been described as precocious were it not for the excitement and the uncertainty of the post-2007 presidential election period was outraged. The country was burning. Claims of a stolen presidential election were rife. The cylinder of democracy had misfired. The now-defunct Electoral Commission of Kenya had bungled the presidential election. Ababu swore allegiance to his political mentor, Raila.A decade later, the once-upon-a-time precocious cub politician is regressing. He is acting out a familiar script, designed for him and others, to scuttle the opposition. The owner of the script just owned up. Claims of compromise are soaring. Last week, Migori Senator Wilfred Machage swore he would lead the Kuria out of ODM and Cord if the formations do not respect the interests of his community. A day later, a group of Kuria elders advised Machage to stop using the community to blackmail the party. He has not responded. Machage and Migori woman representative Denitah Ghati, among others, are beneficiaries of negotiated elections in a county where the Kuria are a minority. Machage has been absent from the party, and he is not sure of his place in the next bargain. Last week, two MPs from Kisii visited Kuria for the same assignment: To lobby for Kuria Consciousness . The MPs have proposed a union of the Kuria and the Abagusii. This formation, they claim, can give them a meal ticket in government.Ababu is preaching a new gospel of Mulembe Consciousness . The MP believes he should be leading this re-awakening. Ababu wants a Luhya to lead the Mulembe nation. He calls it self-determination.Another group of MPs from the Coast are also shouting Mijikenda Consciousness . They want to turn this consciousness into political capital. They want to bargain their way into government. It is nice to dream of Luhya, Luo, Kuria, Kisii and Mjikenda unity. But hope is stubborn. Reality is brutal. In 1992, opposition hopes of change aborted in spite of tribal unity. Kanu survived by wielding the pumpkin and the knife. In 1997, the opposition was divided in search of tribal unity. Gema was united around Mwai Kibaki. The Luo were united around Raila, but they lost. Again, Kanu got away by splashing the proceeds of impunity to trap steak-holders. In 2002, Kenyans got the change the people wanted due to the unity of tribes. The current clamour for tribal unity throws back the country to 1992 and 1997. Steak-holders drive this clamour.Luo unity, Luhya solidarity, or the fraternity of the Kisii and the Kuria exploit ethnic emotions to satisfy the whims of a few. It is the best way to defer democracy. Tribal unity means the country loses to the egos of compromised individuals. The net losers are workers, especially from communities outside the ambit of political correctness.