When Kenyans are appointed CSs of ministries and CEOs of parastatals or government companies like Uchumi, KPLC or Kenya Airways, it is not to develop those companies but to enrich themselves by fleecing them through incredibly high salaries and perks that skyrocket as the companies finances nosedive.When officials of Kenya Airline Pilots Association therefore call for resignation of Kenya Airways CEO and Chairman as a prerequisite to the mending of the company s continuing decline, they are right and should be listened to and their cry heeded or risk the complete collapse of the national airline.But with a call so logical, why is it being ignored? It seems obvious that the expectations of the people for their company and intentions of government and company leadership are very different. With this divergence of people s expectations and company intentions, one is bound to think that it is quite probable that the government could very well be appointing people into CEO positions not to enhance the growth of its companies but as rewards that will allow CEOs to eat and enrich themselves by fleecing the companies. For people however, CEOs should be appointed to develop the companies they lead and through them develop the workers they employ and the country.As one follows the KQ saga, it surprises how logic is turned upside down.Though responsibility for development or lack of it for any company must be taken by the CEO, in the case of KQ, the buck does not stop with Mr. Mbuvi Ngunze and airline chairman, Mr. Awori. A company is even hired to argue that despite the astronomical annual losses of 26.2 billion, poor performance of KQ cannot be blamed because all the bad decisions they took, were taken in good faith. Strangely, Kenyans are not told who the real culprit for these losses is. It is even argued that even though management decisions have led to losses, there is no one that can be blamed for them and company leaders must therefore continue to supervise over more and more losses.Recently when I passed through Addis Ababa, I was surprised to see how Ethiopian Airlines has expanded and the airport transformed itself into the real airline hub of the East African region bursting at the seams with traffic that it seems to have difficulties accommodating. In comparison, Kenya Airways is shrinking through its sale of some big planes and parking lot at Heathrow, shutting down some of its routes and losing many of its customers through its unnecessarily exorbitant tickets. With all these losses of assets, routes and customers, it pains any patriotic Kenyan to see how small our national carrier has shrunk.As Kenyan Airways comes closer and closer to its demise, surely there must be people who must blame for it. As the Kikuyu proverb says that when the leader limps, the flock does not reach the pastures. When Kenya Airways begins to shrink and heads for the grave, the government, the CEO and the entire management of KQ must be to blame for the sorry state of affairs. And ultimately, the entire society must also be to blame for watching helplessly as one of its flagship companies collapses.Yet as KQ collapses, few Kenyans seem concerned and willing to take blame for its inevitable death. But is it possible that there could be some Kenyans who are conniving for the collapse of KQ with a view to benefitting from its demise and substitution with another they might own? While conspiracy theory might sound far fetched, in our present day Kenya, it might not be entirely impossible. Those who will dismiss this theory must be prepared to offer a plausible explanation why KQ is dying without remedy.Another puzzle of this saga is how and why somebody can supervise the collapse of a national company like KQ without being fired for gross inefficiency and negligence if not sabotage of national economy.If somebody is sparing Mr Mbuvi and Awori the sack, can it be because they have not yet contravened the terms of their appointment which is to milk this national cow as long as it is producing anything? Tragically, when the milk of this national cow dries up, it is tax money that is used to buy the cow fodder to eat and produce more milk. With their proven failures, there is absolutely no justification of continuing to keep Messrs Mbuvi Ngunze and Dennis Awori at the helm of Kenya Airways.