Kenya marks five years on this Sunday since the start of the Kenya Defence Forces incursion in Somalia dubbed, Operation Linda Nchi. Since then, there has been a steep increase in terrorist attacks. Among them are West Gate, Mpeketoni, Garissa University College and the El Adde massacre attacks. The government has gone to extreme lengths to conceal the numbers of casualties in El Adde. What, however, can't be concealed are the various impacts this incursion has had on Kenya. One is religion. After a terror attack on October 6, a BBC headline read, " Al-Shabaab 'kills Christians' in Kenya's Mandera town".Undeniably, terror has for decades been linked to religion, and this complicates it more.Widely, it has been linked to Islam. But linkages between Christianity and terrorism are also there. Such is as in the Central African Republic where Anti-Balaka are alleged to kill Muslims. In India, the National Liberation Front of Tripula, a rebel group, has been accused of engaging in terror activities influenced by their Christianity beliefs. In fact, this links trace back to the 1605 Gunpowder Plot. Such links are the faultlines Samuel Huntington predicted in his Clash of Civilizations text. Religion well falls within the scope of the United Nations Security Council resolution 1624. It calls upon states to counter incitement and prevent discrimination or subversion of different religions and cultures.The Security Council resolution 2178 of September 2014 acknowledged terrorism threat had become more diffuse with an increase in various regions of world of terror acts, including those motivated by intolerance and or extremism, such as religious. Undoubtedly, as highlighted by Basia Spalek in his text, Counter Terrorism: Community Based Approaches to Preventing Terror Crime, the events of 9/11 and 7/7 brought religion, and specifically Islam, abruptly and unfairly to the fore-front of security and policy business.Across the world, clerics can and should play a pivotal role in promoting peaceful co-existence. This could be through intra-religious and inter-religious reflection and dialogue. Governments can in addition help build trust within societies and within public institutions.Terrorism will not be defeated by military force, law enforcement measures and intelligence operations alone. We need to fix conditions that promote the spread of terrorism and deny terror groups the ability to put down terrorism roots. Religious leaders have a key role and responsibility to play in this. Religious institutions and their leaders have a major role and responsibility to play in the war against radicalisation and terrorism. It, however has to be said and indeed emphasised, terrorism should not be associated with any religion, nationality or civilisation. If and when we do that, we lose sight and miss the step in the fight against terrorism.There are however few misguided characters acting as religious leaders who have been accused of radicalising, recruiting, financing and arming youths into terror groups. To defend their religion and based on religious convictions, clerics must point and call out those crooked characters. A commitment to one s religion beliefs should provide a feeling of moral duty and responsibility to assist authorities in counterterrorism. Ahmed Toufik, Morocco s minister of Habous and Islamic Affairs addressing a Counter Terrorism Committee of the UNSC said Morocco s approach to managing religious affairs in the context of combating terrorism, initially not intended for terrorism purposes, has now proven to be effective in preventing radicalisation and abuse of religion. It matters how it is done. Injustices (for example marginalisation and the Wagalla massacre in the former Northeastern) and violations of freedoms of worship and religion are key drivers of radicalisation. Hatred and bitterness often rise from real or perceived socioeconomic and political marginalisation. It is imperative to differentiate abuse of religion and a right to practice religion. This calls for religious institutions and their leaders to educate their followers to understand moderate religion. This will counter extremism.For instance, the Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims have previously sought to address issues that motivate young people to joint militant groups. Their Counter Violent Extremism programmes seek to make the youth to be well informed and empowered to resist alternatives offered by extremist groups. These initiatives need to be intensified for them to be felt and be effective. Religious leaders should be the voice of the oppressed, and a link to government for issues to be addressed.