Doctors have been warned to stop over prescribing antibiotics and give them to patients only when they are needed.WHO director general Maragaret Chan says consumers also have to stop demanding for antibiotics when they have a viral infection, like a cold or flu."Before antibiotics are given, tests should be done to ensure its the right one ,the right dose for the right duration," said Chan.Last month, an increase in the number of drug-resistant pathogens forced WHO to revise its treatment guidelines for chlamydia, syphilis and gonorrhea. "On current trends, a common disease like gonorrhea may become untreatable. Doctors facing patients will have to say, 'Sorry, there is nothing I can do for you'," Chan said.She said that the misuse of the said drugs - including their underuse and overuse - is causing the fragile medicines to fail. "The emergence of bacterial resistance is outpacing the world s capacity for antibiotic discovery. Over the past half century, only two new classes of antibiotics reached the market," Chan said.Read: Don t abuse antibiotics, health experts caution She said that it is alarming that superbugs - resistant to nearly all currently available medicines - already haunt hospitals and intensive care units in every region of the world. "Nearly all of us know someone who underwent a routine operation only to die from a hospital-acquired infection," Chan said. Last year, the World Health Assembly approved a global action plan for combating antimicrobial resistance. The official said that since the return on investment is poor, and antibiotics are taken for a short time, they are likely to fail after a brief market life. "Doctors have to stop prescribing them. The medical profession needs better diagnostic tests, so that antibiotics are prescribed only on the basis of a firm diagnosis. More vaccines are needed to prevent infections in the first place," the medic said. She also discouraged the food industry from its massive use of antibiotics, at sub-therapeutic doses, as growth promoters. "Specific antibiotics, listed by WHO as critically important for human medicine, should not be used in animal husbandry or agriculture," the world health body official told delegates at the sidelines of the ongoing UN General Assembly in New York.Health CS Dr Cleopa Mailu said there's need to urgently identify and implement sustainable measures to mitigate any further emergence and spread of resistance to antibiotics.Read: Superbug review urges Big Pharma to 'pay or play' on antibiotics