Local Organizing Committee (LOC) of the 2017 World athletics under-18 Championship needs an additional Sh1 billion for the event.Speaking yesterday at a breakfast meeting at city hotel, Muthee said Sh430 million will cater for the refurbishment of the Kasarani Stadium with Sh650 million going towards the renovation of Kenyatta University hostels, which will serve as the athletes village for the games.A new tartan track and warm up area has to be laid at Kasarani in line with the specifications of the IAAF. We want to have a high standard tartan track and we want to do it right. We want to make sure whatever we do is to the best of our capability. IAAF have recommended a few consultancy firms, who are working with the LOC to make sure that the work we do is up to the expectations of everybody, added Muthee.Muthee, however, said time is running out and asked government to disburse the funds as quickly as possible. We only have six months and we are lagging behind in certain aspects. We need to move with speed to meet the time-lines set up by IAAF, added Muthee.Muthee added that various technical teams from the IAAF starting coming to the country next week to assess the preparedness and the of the world championships. Technical teams from Seiko and Cannon arrive in the country on Monday and will work alongside the event broadcaster, SuperSport with a further technical team expected on October 24 to look at other aspects of the championships.Part of the Sh600 million will go towards setting up a high performance training centre at Kenyatta University, a legacy programme that will assist the youth development of Athletics Kenya and the East African region in the years to come. Muthee observed preparations are ongoing and with the support of the government, he was confident things will go well.Over 150 countries are expected for the five-day championships, which starts on July 11-16 with over 1,500 participants expected for the championship.Local Organising Committee chairman Jackson Tuwei expressed confidence that the event will be a success. We have the support of the highest office of the land and we are working together to ensure this event is as success, he said.Senior advisor in the Office of the President Ruth Kagia, who was the chief guest, told the committee of full government support. I want to assure of full government support. I know time may not be on our side but let us work with speed and meet the time-lines that are set, added Kagia.