Afraha Stadium, Nakuru, will be the battlefield today when the the GOTV Shield semi-finals take centre stage this afternoon.The first match will pit current SportPesa Premier League leaders Tusker FC against National Super League side KCB at 1pm. Later, another SPL side Ulinzi Stars will take on the other NSL side, Kariobangi Sharks at 3:45pm as confirmed by Football Kenya Federation.The semifinal clashes will be a supremacy battle between SPL and NSL. Both NSL sides booked their spots in the semis after flooring SPL opponents and will be seeking to replicate the same displays as in the quarters.The brewers booked their slot in the semis on Wednesday when they edged out Posta Rangers in a tightly contested match which saw Rangers finish one man less after Joackins Atudo was sent for an early shower for accruing a second yellow card in the game in the 65 minute. Shafik Batambuze converted the resultant free kick to hand Tusker a 2-1 victory. Tusker skipper James Situma is confident the brewers will go all the way to the Shield. It will be a tight match against KCB. We have played them previously and we know they are a good side. So we are not taking any chances. Our main aim is to win the tournament, Situma said.The match will be a tough one owing to KCB s experience from playing in the top league. The bankers eliminated Western Stima in the quarterfinals two weeks ago to book their place in the semis.KCB are one of the teams in the second tier league fighting for promotion to the top tier and will use the semifinal encounter against the big boys from the top league to gauge themselves.They are currently placed sixth with 44 points and have 14 matches to go.Ulinzi Stars have slipped-up in the league and will be eyeing the Shield as consolation silverware this season.This is according to assistant coach Benjamin Nyangweso who is standing in as the head coach for the ailing Robert Matano.Nyangweso said in the club s official website the GOtv Shield tournament will be a chance to win a trophy this season and that the soldiers will fight hard to achieve that.Kariobangi Sharks will be a force to reckon with. The team has had a good run in the NSL and in the tournament as well and will be on duty to book a spot in the final.They overpowered an experienced Bandari side in the quarter finals.