Did National Assembly majority leader Aden Duale let the cat out of the bag when he told Parliament that former ODM secretary general Ababu Namwamba (pictured) has failed to land in any party after he severed links with ODM? Duale, a vocal and abrasive government defender, tore into the Budalang i lawmaker, telling the eloquent politician he loves hip-hop, skip and Jump , referring to party hopping. The assertion immediately generated a heated debate in the corridors of Parliament, with the majority of MPs wondering if the Garissa Township MP was aware of the events that led to Namwamba s departure from the party he once vigorously defended and swore to die for.********Troubled Kenya Airways doesn t seem to find stability in the skies either. Yesterday, it delayed a flight to Kampala for more than eight hours, only to cancel it. Reason? Technical issues. Instead of explaining to the already inconvenienced passengers, the cabin crew only apologised. The pilot on duty, however, took it upon herself to explain what happened and apologised profusely. But despite her efforts, a red-faced mzungu was so angry that he called KQ The Liar of Africa . Question is, what is management of the Pride of Africa doing to resolve the problems?*******A Coast governor is under siege for employing 35 relatives and at least 25 cronies in the past one year alone, placing them at strategic management positions. The flashy county boss is said to have disregarded staff hiring policies. He has taken it upon himself to recruit employees without going through the public service board. The move has sparked internal rebellion. His attempts to hire his daughter as a senior accountant flopped last month after some members of the board raised the red flag. The governor recently irregularly fired a board member who questioned him. The member was ordered to leave office by the county secretary after reporting last Monday and served with his employment termination letter a day after.*********A Western MP, in his 40s, has literally turned his Continental office into a bedroom, walking in late at night with his chips funga , despite strict rules governing entry and exit for the waheshimiwa . The well-built MP has become a menace, following his insatiable appetite for sex. Parliamentary orderlies wonder what to do with him. The lawmaker has been harassing and intimidating security officers. Whenever he is questioned about his nocturnal errands, he literally threatens to teach the officers a lesson. He drives himself in without a bodyguard and leaves at around 5am to change clothes, before returning at 10am for parliamentary sessions. A senior security officer is said to have laid a trap for him and it is just a matter of time before he is nabbed if he does not stop his wayward ways.*******A senior Ewaso Ng iro North Development Authority manager is in panic after EACC officers raided the authority s offices and carted away tonnes of documents . The sleuths are said to be investigating claims of procurement irregularities and misuse of funds. The official, according to our mole, has refused to report to the authority s headquarters in Isiolo and has taken refuge at one of the top city hotels. The loss of funds over many years amounts to Sh2 billion. Based on the evidence so far, it is just a matter of time before someone is hauled into court.