ODM governors are not using taxpayers money to fund the party s rallies, Kisumu Governor Jack Ranguma has said.There have been concerns the governors are spending a lot of county funds on party activities.Ranguma yesterday said the county government does not support the party affairs financially, but members do. As a county government, we can only deal with those things in the budget. It should be clear that the rallies are supported by members, he said.He said ODM can generate its own income. As a governor, I m free to support ODM in my own capacity, Ranguma said.He spoke during a press conference in Kisumu. The party is preparing a major rally today at Kirembe grounds. Ranguma warned politicians against using the ODM rally to settle scores. He said it will be a platform to consolidate party support and achieve a better deal in 2017 for leader Raila Odinga.Ranguma urged residents to come out in large numbers for the rally. ODM officials led by Raila are expected atthe rally. Raila will be accompanied by deputy party leader Hassan Joho and Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya as they seek to rejuvenate the party s support in the Lake region.Kisumu ODM chairman Ayiecho Olweny said the leaders will hold a series of roadshows. He assured supporters of maximum security. He said they have notified police of the event and urged supporters to come out in large numbers. We are ready to receive the party leaders. We will have a peaceful event, Olweny said.Earlier this week, Ranguma said preparations are complete for the rallies and they are leaving nothing to chance. Joho will lead Raila s campaign team for the event. The team is comprised of Aisha Jumwa (Kilifi woman rep), John Mbadi (Suba MP), Oparanya, Junet Mohamed (Suna East MP), Agnes Zani (nominated Senator), Elijah Memusi (Kajiado Central MP), Millie Odhiambo (Mbita MP) and Mishi Mboko (Mombasa woman rep)Kisumu Central treasurer Edward Ogolla told the Star on the phone that Joho s team will meet party delegates at the Tom Mboya Labour College.He said 60 delegates will be drawn from Kisumu Central, Kisumu West, Kisumu East, Muhoroni, Nyando, Seme and Nyakach subcounties.On Tuesday, Joho said the journey to make Uhuru Kenyatta a one-term President began in Mombasa and Nairobi, and will flow through the country. Uhuru must not go back to office for dividing the country down the middle, he said.