No woman from Samburu Centralwas recruited to join the military, candidates complaining they were turned away without reason.KDF senior recruiting officer, Lieutenant Colonel Peter Wanga, acknowledged this but said their HR department was handling the matter.The recruitment exercise took place at Kenyatta stadium in Maralal town. We are not taking female candidates at this centre. I know it is a very big issue but it is being handled at our headquarters," said Wanga.Read: KDF to recruit cadets, specialist officersAlso read: 4,000 soldiers targeted as KDF kicks off recruitment on MondayJackline Leakono, a 21-year-old who arrived at the stadium at about 5am on Wednesday, said she was not told why she was rejected."We live in Samburu county which is a hardship area. We face a lot of problems so we are ready to do any job, anywhere in the country, she said.Candidate Elizabeth Muthoni also said she was not told why she was turned away.Antonilla Korir said: "I was turned away because I am a woman. I am calling upon the government to consider us and prove we can work."Similar cases were reported in Wundayi where only two men were picked, while only two men and a woman were recruited in Taveta subcounty. This is gender discrimination. Girls are also capable of working in the military, said one who did not want to be named.Read: Sh52 million paid as bribe in KDF recruitment - reportOthers turned away on medical groundsHundreds others were disqualified after failing medical tests; most had flat feet, bowed legs, missing teeth and scars.But Lieutenant Canon Keitany, officer in charge of the exercise, said none of the candidates was underweight.He said there were no cases of the submission of fake KSCE documents. The minimum grade for recruitment was D+.Keitany also said they were looking into the gender balance issue. According to records at our headquarters, the number of women working in the military form this area is big. That is the reason we left girls out, he said.He addressed the media flanked by Major Mrisa and Warrant officer 1 Joseph Wango.Protests in Trans Mara WestDisqualified candidates from Kirindon division in Trans Mara West held protests following the exercise on Monday.Chief recruiting officer Lieutenant Colonel Thomas Poghisio told journalists the demonstrators took part in the recruitment at Dikirr Town in Trans Mara East subcounty.But Philip Ntaiya, who did not make the cut, said he was disappointed that most candidates from Kirindon did not know they were to go to Dikirr instead of Kilgoris. We should not be victimised for a mistake that is not of our making. We know Kirindon administratively falls under Trans Mara West . It was unfair for us to be turned away in Kilgoris after being told that our people were recruited at Dikirr," he said.Poghisio explained that Kirindon falls under Trans Mara West but that the schedule he received from KDF headquarters placed it under Trans Mara East.He said this would be corrected for the sake of future recruitment exercises.Area elder Jonathan Nang eda said it was unfair for candidates in the area to be "tossed around for no apparent reason"."We are also appealing for an increase in recruitment centres since most candidates have travelled from far-flung areas," he said.He mentioned Emarti, Ongata Barikoi, Masurura, Mashangwa and Ogwedhi, which he noted are at least 30km from Kilgoris town.