A crisis retreat for key Cord players is planned to iron out differences threatening to dismember the coalition and hand President Uhuru Kenyatta an easy win.The retreat will take place in Naivasha before the end of October.This was agreed at a meeting between ODM chief Raila Odinga and his Wiper counterpart Kalonzo Musyoka on Thursday, their first contact since Cord wrangles hit a new high.Both Kalonzo and Raila have been putting out fire, reassuring their support bases the coalition is intact, despite sharp differences on major decisions, especially who will be the presidential flagbearer.For the first time after weeks of tension, Raila and Kalonzo yesterday appeared together for the burial of the husband of former Kathiani MP Wavinya Ndeti in Kalonzo's Machakos backyard.The former VP struck a conciliatory tone in an exclusive interview with the Star on Thursday. We cannot speak in absolute terms that Kalonzo has to be on the ballot. But if Kalonzo is the solution to deal with Jubilee's incompetence, then we can also explore that route, Kalonzo said. Cord has shown clearly that we are together. These are the last moments for Jubilee. People should not be worried because we are together. We will stick together and nobody will put us apart, he said.At the retreat, the three opposition chiefs, including Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula, will explore how to conduct joint campaign rallies.Vigorous but separate campaigns by the three Cord affiliate parties of ODM, Wiper and Ford Kenya have proved divisive, as leaders train their guns on each other. We are going to have a retreat and not one (sic). We will continue to retreat and have more meetings as we get close to elections, Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama said in an interview yesterday. He is co-chairman of the Cord Management Committee.The retreat comes as Kalonzo and Raila have disagreed on when the Cord presidential candidate should be named.In what they called the Tononoka Declaration, Wiper gave the coalition an ultimatum: name the presidential candidate by Christmas Day or else.Raila and his allies favour a February 2017 nomination, only five months to the August 8 general election.The opposition chiefs are also yet to agree on how the candidate will be selected. MPs would be invited [to the retreat] because key issues, including nomination of the presidential flagbearer as well as coalition primaries, would be discussed, a source in Cord said.But for the second time yesterday, a confident Muthama and a close Kalonzo ally told a new conference in Kisumu that Cord already had a candidate.Muthama, described by insiders as the strongest believer in the coalition, said it was an impossibility that 11 months to the polls they have no presidential candidate. Ata Jubilee walie wakiomba maulana, mara saba kwa siku, hatuwapi mgombaji wetu urais kwa sasa, tuko na yeye kwa mfuko. Tuko imara hatunawasiwasi (Even if Jubilee cries, praying seven times a day, we will not tell them who our flagbearer is for now. We have him in our pockets and we are not worried at all), he said.There have been claims that Wiper's top body, known as the Summit, had already endorsed Cord's 2013 line-up.This involves Raila as the Presidential candidate, Kalonzo as his running mate while Wetang'ula is to be the Senate Majority Leader. If you want to know if there is something going wrong or serious within the coalition, then you should ask me, Eseli Simiyu [Tongaren MP] or Orengo, Muthama said, dismissing talks of disunity.The three are joint chairmen of the Cord Management Committee.Kalonzo told the Star he prefers a boardroom consensus deal but was not ruling out his colleagues' preferences. As a coalition, we do not have time to organise our respective parties' delegates within the Cord family. The moment you go that way, you create an atmosphere of animosity. We know our strengths and weaknesses as Cord principals, he said.Cord is yet to agree on joint primaries, despite an earlier deal by co-principals to register a corporate Cord Party, with affiliates that do not have to dissolve and merge, as did Jubilee Party affiliates. Party leader Senator Boni Khalwale has particularly opposed joint nominations.There are also concerns about populist statements by the three co-principals' foot soldiers that are considered unhelpful to the unity of the coalitionThese include calls by a section of ODM leaders that the party should name Mombasa Governor Ali Hassan Joho as Raila's running mate.Kalonzo has publicly complained about the remarks, while Joho has said he has not interested in the position. We can't afford politics of sycophancy. So for anybody to suggest ODM could do it alone is wrong. We are saying if you want to go that way, you are making a mistake, he complained in an interview with Citizen TV four days ago.Two weeks ago, Wiper appeared to rule out any possibility of Kalonzo missing the 2017 ballot.The Naivasha retreat comes at a time of speculation Cord is about to clinch a deal with ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi.Over the weekend, Mudavadi hinted he has been in talks with Cord to form a 'super alliance' that will defeat Jubilee.However, while Kalonzo says new political players are welcome, he insists they must not be given preferential treatment. I myself don't think what matters is everyone to come on board, even those who were not eating teargas when we were trying to reform the IEBC with my friend Raila and Moses Wetang'ula. There must also be an element of sacrifice, he said.