Members of Parliament often give the impression of a happy lot. They display signs of class, without enjoying what their status symbols suggest. They have to sacrifice something to enjoy the illusion of arrival. Their shared pain rises as their tenure draws to a closure. Dry lips, teary and sleepy eyes, bleary voices and faces betray fatigue. Interests on bank loans are rising at malicious rates. Loan default notices are coming. Penalties are rising. The election date is drawing closer. MPs need fuel-guzzling vehicles to show the class divide between them and the Probox crowds. VXL Prado Landcruiser announces you have to know cars to realize someone of class is about. There is this ambitious man who believes imitation is the best form of flattery. One end-month weekend, he borrowed a 3.6cc monster of a car, a VXL Toyota Prado Landcruisher from a friend for a journey to his village in Maseno. He needed a vehicle that would proclaim that, he, too, had arrived. Or how would they know he works for a multinational firm in Nairobi? Before leaving Nairobi on a chilly Saturday morning, he loaded the machine with Sh8,000 worth of gasoline. He believed this was reasonable as his 15cc car does the trip on a Sh5,000 tank. In Gilgil, the fuel-gauge was heading to the 'E'-mark. He believed he would reload the fuel tank in Kericho. In Nakuru, he called the owner of the car to find out if the fuel-gauge was working right. "The fuel-gauge is 100% fine. How much petrol did you put in?" the owner of the car asked."I bought fuel on Waiyaki Way for Sh8,000. I checked as the pump attendant was filling," he replied, believing there was something wrong with the fuel-gauge. "Go and put petrol, stop joking," the owner said. The young man feed the car another Sh12,000, worth of gas in Nakuru. When he reached Kisumu, the gauge was moving maliciously toward the E-mark again. He loaded another Sh4,000. He again called the owner of the car. "Could you becoming to Maseno this weekend?" When he returned to Nairobi, the vehicle had swallowed Sh30,000 worth of petrol, and was blinking yellow. Earlier he had spent Sh32,000 on safari service. MPs took mortgages to buy houses in classy neighborhoods. They did not want to stay with the riffraffs in an unsheltered estates. Some went for extra wives or girlfriends. Some rent high-end apartments to avoid the prying eyes in high-density neighbourhoods. Excited parliamentary aspirants are salivating for these positions. Some have careers and investments. Some will take loans or sell their assets to stay the course. The ambitious aspirants have fallen for the illusion incumbents live. Even MPs who got in with careers and investments are hurting. They sulk when they are in the circles of people of their class. Even those ones have to digger deeper into their savings to keep the illusion. Their Sh1,200,000 in salary and allowances is a lot of money only before spending starts. Those who treat their parliamentary tenure as employment, hustle to give the impression of arrival. Status symbols need money to sustain. How would the masses know if the elected ones do not give the impression of class? The worst part is the electorate, long trained to believe in handouts as a matter of course. If you don't give, you have to learn to live with voters saying, "We are going to kick you out next year." If you do not pick their phones, you are in trouble. If you do, you have to listen to assorted financial needs of individual voters. Medical bills, funeral expenses, fundraising for assorted causes, school fees, dowry, and others. The needs are many, the means is limited. The expectations are high, default is punishable at the ballot. "Please call me, thank you" messages are many, and they come daily. If you call, you are in trouble, if you don't you are in greater trouble. MPs are suffering without bitterness and it is the voters driving them into lies and corruption to keep the illusion of class.