In October 2015, the BBC website carried a story headlined "UK ending aid to India."It said India for decades had been the biggest recipient of British foreign aid. And yet, for at least two decades, India was not considered to be a poor country. Indeed, the same article said, "The argument against giving aid to India certainly isn't hard to make. Why should British taxpayers be paying for poverty relief in a country which has just sent a mission to Mars, which boasts more billionaires than Britain and itself hands out hundreds of millions of pounds a year to needy nations? Kenya is one of those needy nations , as anyone following the agreements it makes with foreign nations, must know.It is usually not crystal clear whether the money given is a grant or a loan. But when Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Kenya this July, the cancer hospital he offered was most certainly a gift. It is estimated to cost Sh4.5 billion. And this came from a country that only last year, in 2015, was receiving aid money from the British taxpayer.Add to this the fact that China an even greater donor to Kenya has over 10 years or so been a major recipient of aid from the US Presidential Emergency Fund for AIDS Relief, along with India and Kenya. From this you will get some idea of just how convoluted this whole issue of foreign aid is. A surprising number of countries both give and receive aid.In such a context, it is hardly surprising South Sudan now seeks financial support from Kenya.If indeed Kenya does extend the loan, it will be just one more case of a country both receiving foreign loans and grants, as well as giving them.The more interesting question is whether indeed this money will be used for officially sanctioned purposes, or end up in personal bank accounts.South Sudan has the misfortune of being led by men who until fairly recently were military field commanders. The history of African nations suggests such men often have difficulty adjusting to ruling as civilian heads of democratic governments.Even if the head of state is himself a paragon of virtue, there often are others below him all former soldiers who believe their first duty is to accumulate a private fortune to compensate for many years of battlefield hardships.