Ali Korane s name is synonymous with the Provincial Administration, where he made a mark as a District Commissioner and later as Deputy Provincial Commissioner.But that is not all he wanted. Given a choice, Korane, an aspirant for the 2017 Garissa gubernatorial seat, would rather he was known as commander, general, or brigadier, because all he wanted was to be in the Army. Being in administration was the last thing on my mind, he says, emphasing his martial ambitions.Yet, for those who know him that would sound ironic. He first job was in the Army but he left after a brief stint and opted to pursue other endeavours. He briefly served as a clerk and teller in a bank before settling in the administration and finally in the central government as Permanent Secretary.Today, Korane s life is taking yet another turn. He has declared his interest to be governor of Garissa county, because devolution has been squandered by those who are charged with its implementation .He goes on, explaining his interest in politics: Devolution is a whole new concept, especially for the communities in the North, who have a long history of marginalization. Those elected to implement devolution have disappointed; they are not providing leadership. They are busy squandering the resources taken to the county. With his vast experience in public administration, the former PS says he has what it takes, I want to provide leadership because after three years of devolution and Sh30 billion, Garissa county has nothing to show for it .And he believes this matter is serious and urgent. Everything is of utmost urgency because the people do not have the luxury of time in their desire to enjoy a decent life. Drawing from his experience, Korane thinks the position of governor should be a fulltime assignment.He argues that the governor s position should be bereft of the high voltage politics that have come to characterise the office. Fulltime means that holders will have the capacity to provide political, administrative and even economic leadership in their jurisdiction, he explains. The Projects will be implemented on the basis of need and the people will be given an opportunity to decide what is good for them. His priority as governor will be to secure the county from runaway insecurity, threats of terror and cases of radicalization of the youth.1961: Born in Balambala, Garissa district.1970: Started formal education when he joined Balambala Primary School. He did his CPE in 1976.1977: Garissa High School, did his O-level exams in 1980.1981: Recruited into the Kenya Army, where he served as an officer until 1983, when he resigned.1984: Barclays Bank, served as a clerk and teller for just one year.1985: Joined the Provincial Administration as District Officer. Promoted to District Commissioner in 19881985: George Washington University, Washington, USA, Master of Arts degree in Diplomacy.1995: Leicester University, Master of Science, Police Leadership and Management.2001: Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Tourism and Information under the Kanu administration.2003: Permanent Secretary, Gender and Youth under the Narc regime.2004: University of Nairobi, Master of Business Administration.2014: The problem with our politics is that of tribalism. We have educated our people but there are no jobs for them. We are doing little to achieve that. We must invest in cohesion and ensure that devolution works. Most Kenyans think they have no stake and this provides a long-term danger for the survival of our country. The country is for all and an inclusive policy will only be achieved if there is something for everyone. 2016: There is no effort to collect revenue in Garissa county because there are no structures to enhance service delivery, including provision of clean water and health services. People are disappointed and have not seen the benefit of devolution. All the sub-counties, have collapsed for lack of services. 