Son Of Mercy is the hotly anticipated 5 track EP by Nigerian superstar, Davido is out.The EP also features R&amp;B it-girl Tinashe who brings a typically sensual cameo to the mix on the track How Long set to go live on Oct 14. The US born songstress of Zimbabwean heritage also co-stars with Davido in the video, shot on location in Malibu. Production on the feel-good track comes courtesy of British born, Nigerian songwriter Parker Ighile (Nicki Minaj, Rihanna, Ariana Grande). Not many music artists can claim iconic status within just five years of starting out, but at the age of 23, the Atlanta-born Nigerian singer/songwriter, producer and label owner can do just that. Davido is one of the most recognised flag bearers for the current wave of African artists on the rise. Charging forth onto the music landscape with the monstrous soaring classic Dami Duro in 2012, he has since then become the talk of an entire continent, securing not just the buy-in of African fans by the multitude but also unanimous media acknowledgment, with accolades including a plethora of nominations for prestigious awards and winning two MTV Africa Music Awards and a BET Award. Recently, the Nigerian star spoke with Net.ng about his life in general.Did you know that Davido has saved his baby mama, Sophie Momodu s name on his phone as BIG HEAD .Here s their conversation with Davido Let s talk about your daughter, how s she?She's Fine.Is it awkward that the only way you see her is through your baby mama?Yea it's cool. We have our differences. I won't say we are 100% cool, but it's ok.So why did you save her number on your phone as Big Head ?(Laughs) Of course it's a joke. I've always called her 'Big Head' even when we were dating.So officially you guys are no longer dating?We are co-parenting right now.Whenever she brings your daughter, do you hug her (Sophie)?of course I do.How about a kiss?No, no (sings) No Kissing Baby(A song by Patoranking)When you were in US, you got back with your bae, Sira?She's cool, her sister dates my brother, so they only followed me to the 'One Africa' concert in Houston.