Ezekiel Mutua is at it again. The head of the Kenya Film Classification Board has a fondness for showing off the perks that come with his job. In April, he took to social media to boast about using an airport s VIP lounge and flying business class. This week, he posted pictures of his diplomatic passport on his Facebook account to brag that he had received a visa to visit the United States despite his bigoted and illegal crusade against content promoting LGBT and Atheists culture in Kenya . "I didn't even have to go to the Embassy for biometrics or pay the visa application fee. It was delivered to my office free of charge," he averred.Mutua s childishness predictably drew a large number of mocking responses which only spurred him on to new lows, petulantly sending at least one of his critics an insulting direct message calling him an idiot and a bloody fool . But however disgraceful we might think Mutua s tweets and facebook posts to be, we should be careful not to be distracted by them. It would be a deadly mistake to focus on the theatrics and ignore the real danger he poses. For the that lies, not in his braggadocio, but in the silence that has greeted his distorting the law and the constitution in an attempt to impose his views and beliefs on the rest of Kenya. As I previously discussed on this column, Mutua has used the KFCB, which was set up to regulate the making and exhibition of cinematograph films, for the licensing of stage plays, theatres and cinemas in ways not contemplated in legislation. He has attempted to police parties, the internet, TV ads and even claimed the power to regulate the content of political shows. Though there is no law criminalizing homosexuality, he purports to declare it illegal and to ban internet videos that celebrate love between same sex couples. He has claimed that atheism is similarly unconstitutional despite the clear constitutional prohibition on establishing a state religion.Yet few of these outrages have elicited much discussion outside social media. Much of Kenyan media seems to be blissfully unaware or even worse, dismissive, of the threat he poses especially as we head into the election season. If nothing else, one would expect that the idea of a government official prescribing the limits of political speech would have both journalists and opposition politicians up in arms. Yet it has elicited little more than a whimper and an empty threat to sue from media owners, which Mutua has laughed off.This silence mirrors a wider quiet, a tendency to focus less on the substantial and more on the superficial. Last week, as the country marked the third anniversary of the horrific attack on the Westgate mall, I noted that official accounts of terror incidents were mostly designed to cover up the incompetence and culpability of senior officials and officers rather than reveal the truth. But the really depressing fact is that the government s obviously flawed tales do not elicit much commentary or questioning from either the press, civil society or the opposition.Just as the mistakes and criminality that allowed the Westgate massacre to happen have been repeated with similar consequences in Garissa and Mandera and Mpeketoni and El Adde, so has the silence that accompanied it been replicated. Few within the media or the opposition or civil society have demanded an accounting for any of these attacks or even for Operation Linda Nchi, the 2011 Kenyan invasion of Somalia that triggered them. (The reason for the opposition CORD coalition ignoring the latter is not difficult to fathom its principals, Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetangula were Prime Minister, Vice-President and Foreign Minister respectively when the decision to invade was taken.)It is a truism worth repeating that eternal vigilance is the price of liberty. Whether it is about security and terrorism or the diminution of citizens rights to free speech and conscience, this silence leaves us all vulnerable. Freedom from predation by terrorists or even by a narcissistic and insecure public official, will only come when we loudly and consistently demand it.