The government has issued 2,972 title deeds to the residents of Suswa in Narok East constituency, Narok county.Lands CS Jacob Kaimenyi said this is part of efforts to give out three million title deeds announced by President Uhuru Kenyatta.He urged residents not to sell their land. Kaimenyi spoke on Saturday whe handing out title deeds in an event attended by National Land Commission chairman Muhammad Swazuri and Narok Governor Samuel Tunai. You should jealously guard your land. I urge you to avoid land brokers, especially now that you have received your title deeds, he said. As a government, we have issued 2.4 million title deeds and we are on course to achieve our target. Authentic titlesKaimenyi denied claims the Jubilee administration is issuing fake title deeds. There are people spreading false rumours that these title deeds are fake. Let me assure that they are as authentic as they come, he said.Narok East MP Ken Aramat said Chinese contractors building the standard gauge railway should give residents jobs. It s difficult for residents to accept such a project if they are not involved, he said.Tunai promised to ensure all residents receive their title deeds. Land is an important issue for my community. Land will no longer be an issue to be politicised and taken advantage of. I m happy that today, residents of Suswa will each go home with this vital document, he said.Don t sell land for boozeThe issue surrounding Enosupukia Forest was also brought up. Tunai warned that the forest faces degradation from encroachers. People who have encroached on the forest. I urge the minister and the land commission to intervene, he said.Kaimenyi said the government is committed to ensuring all Kenyans are served regardless of tribe or race. He also issued 3,648 title deeds to the Ongata Naado and Kipise group ranches. The aim of issuing of title deeds is to uplift the lives of Kenyans, Kaimenyi said. These title deeds are genuine and cannot be forged because the government has digitised their production. The Cabinet Secretary urged residents to use their land for economic production, instead of pawning it and spending the money on alcohol or as dowry to marry more wives.Tunai encouraged residents to use alternative methods to solve land disputes, instead of going courts as lawsuits take too long to be determined. Traditionally, elders sat under trees to resolve land issues. This should be encouraged as it promotes peace, justice and is faster than the court process, he said.