Never one to withstand oppression, Amina Nassor Abdalla quit her job with an international company because of sectarian discrimination. I worked for seven years for the company, and I was never promoted despite helping it achieve ISO certification twice, she says. I used to take newcomers through orientation and they would then end up getting salary higher than mine. I could not take it anymore. As the daughter of a squatter, she holds the historic land question at the Coast close to her heart. She says that it pains her to see people living for decades on parcels of land which they are eventually evicted from.She has not personally lived through this devastating experience.But she hopes she will never have to live through it.She has already started a campaign of her own to ensure those who have lived for more than 12 years on a piece of land get title deeds. I imagine my parents will die squatters on land they have lived in their entire lives because they have no title deeds, she says.Thus she has set her eyes on the Kilifi South parliamentary seat.This is because she is disheartened whenever she goes back home and finds little change in terms of development. The level of education is retrogressing instead of progressing, says the mother of three, noting this is marked by the dismal performance in the national exams. That is one of the factors pushing me to go for this seat because I want to effect some positive changes. She regrets that issues concerning youth and women have not been championed by leaders in the area.Unemployment is rampant and companies have taken advantage of the desperation to pay absolutely minimal wages. Levels of ignorance are also very high among women.This has made many miss out on government development funds. Some Uwezo Funds have come to the constituency. But the better part of the money had to be returned to the central government because many groups did not qualify to access the funds, Abdalla says.She has initiated the Mama Amina ID Mitaani where she sponsored the Kilifi South registration office to move to the grassroots to ensure youth apply for and take up IDs.Farms in Chasimba and Mwarakaya wards in Kilifi South are fertile but lack of technology means farmers rely solely on rains, which often fail. If we can get some irrigation from our national government, these areas can feed the whole county, she says.In five minutes1979: Born in Vipingo village, Kilifi county.1987: Started primary school at Shariani, then Kikambala primary schools where she did her KCPE exam in 1994.1995: Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Technical and Secondary school she did KCSE exam 1998.1999: APTECH International College, Ontario, Canada, diploma in System Management.2000: Moi University, bachelor of science degree in chemistry in 2004.2005: Joined an international company as Senior Food Safety analyst for seven years before she quit.2012: Started a private business.2013: University of Nairobi, MBA in Operations Management, graduated in 2015.2015: University of Nairobi, PhD candidate in political science.Quotes2015: Let s commit ourselves to investing in young people s energy and idealism. If we do that, the world will be a better place for all. For example, a company in Kilifi South pays two people differently; one local and another from another region, doing the same work. In most cases the locals are paid two or three times less. These are the matters that need to be addressed by leaders in the area. 2016: Women do not need discrimination. Give a woman such an environment and she will have that courage to face any kind of challenges in life. Women need that motivational push to make it. What a man can do, a woman can also do. A woman should have the courage to meet anyone, anywhere and she can do anything. 2016: Articulating issues is the first step towards solving major problems. We have leaders who are self-centred. Because they are okay, they do not care about anything else, more so the less privileged. These are some of the things pushing me. 