After Kenya s win against DR Congo,Fifa ranking is set to shoot upAll indications are that Harambee Stars are on the right path despite the easy way in which they exited the qualifiers for next year's African Cup of Nations in Gabon and the 2018 World Cup in Russia.Certainly recent results of the national team under coach Stanley Okumbi shows the upward trajectory the Stars are on, not least Tuesday nights 1-0 victory away at DR Congo.It might only have been a friendly international but how many of those kinds have Kenya won in the last two decades. Michael Olunga scored the all important goal midway through the second half to confirm the second victory of Okumbi s reign against the team from the wider Congo having also defeated Congo Brazzaville over three months ago.The victory was even more pivotal not only coming away from home but also without two leading lights in the Stars squad, skipper Victor Wanyama and winger Ayub Timbe.The duo have been on their best elements in Okumbi s regime and appear to be among the handful of indispensable players in the Kenya team.The result and the performance of their compatriots also points out to the strength in depth that Okumbi now enjoys having relied for years on two or three players for the national team to get a good result. Reports indicate the win might not have come had it not been for shot stopper Boniface Oluoch. The Gor custodian continued to underlie his growing importance to the team but also points out why not everyone has been especially clamouring for Arnold Origi s recall.What will happen in the next week is that Stars ranking in the world football pecking order will improve markedly after the victory over DR COngo who are ranked 51st in the world, 40 places ahead of the Kenya national etam.The Fifa ranking has been the yard stick for the current regime of FKF President Nick Mwendwa to measure the national team s development following the dual exit from the qualifiers. Exepect Kenya to move up by not less than ten places when the next rankings are released mid next weekMeanwhile the GOtv Shield final pitting Ulinzi Stars and Tusker has now been confirmed for October 20 after the third and fourth place playoffs pitting National Super League sides KCB and Kariobangi Sharks.Ulinzi have been urged to go one better than their one sided mauling of Sharks in the last four by top team official Joe Birgen.Major Birgen was impressed with the team s showing over the weekend and hailed the players for their stellar performance. We played very well and I must congratulate the team. That was a great performance worthy of champions, Major Birgen said on the Ulinzi official site. We are going into the final with our tails up. We know we can do it. The team has stayed five years without a trophy and I now think the wait is over. We will give the team all the necessary support to see our dream is achieved, he added.Ulinzi won courtesy of a hat trick from John Mark Makwatta, adding to Oscar Wamalwa s first half goal and will be seeking a ticket to represent the country in the CAF Continental Cup while Tusker will be seeking a rare league and cup double as they also top the premier league standings with five matches to play.