In July, on a short visit to the UK, I took a 200km drive on the M40 from London to Birmingham. Travelling through the English countryside, one is treated to lots of greenery but not much else. In fact, for one used to Kenyan roads, this is perhaps the most remarkable thing about travelling on the motorway. For two hours, apart from my fellow motorists and their passengers, there was little sign of life. No towns, no cyclists, no bus stops, no pedestrians strolling beside it or trying to cross it.Last weekend, I had occasion to use another superhighway , this time back in Kenya. The experience was quite different. It took about two-and-a-half hours to cover the 126km from Nairobi to Karatina, just under half of which is on the famous Thika Superhighway, the signature infrastructure project of the Kibaki administration. Massive tailbacks are a feature at the regular bumps erected to facilitate pedestrian crossings along the busy and populated areas the road rumbles through. In addition, 18 footbridges span it and another 10 are planned. Matatus are constantly stopping to (mostly illegally) pick up or drop passengers. It is a road that is full of life.It is also a road sadly filled with death. According to the National Transport and Safety Authority, it is Kenya s most dangerous road for pedestrians. In 2014, the Senate Committee on Transport and Infrastructure found that more than 200 pedestrians had died since the road was inaugurated two years prior. Nearly 300 had been injured. That works out to about five people killed or injured every week.The NTSA says 80 per cent of road crashes are caused by human error, everything from drunk drivers to jaywalking pedestrians. In fact, the 2014 Senate committee report indicated that nearly 800 pedestrians had been arrested for attempting to cross from undesignated areas. The remaining fifth of crashes were attributed to the mechanical condition of vehicles, weather and the state of the road itself.This understanding has informed the measures undertaken to tackle the problem. From increased enforcement to the erection of bumps to slow down traffic on what was touted as an expressway, to building more footpaths and erecting barriers to prevent unauthorised crossings. Yet, few eyebrows were raised six months ago when Transport CS James Macharia announced the government s intention to remove the existing bumps, which were themselves said to be a safety feature. It was an indicator of where the problem truly lies.To understand why, take a look at Sweden. In 1997, the country, which has one of the best road safety records in the world, adopted a radical Vision Zero policy, which seeks to not just reduce, but eliminate deaths and injuries on its roads. The main pillar of the policy is that those who design, maintain and enforce the road system and its rules are ultimately responsible for the level of safety within it.In essence, it is not enough to simply point the finger at errant drivers and stupid pedestrians. Road crashes are also a function of the design and rules of the road. In fact the policy puts the onus not on users but on the designers. The late Donella Meadows described a system as a set of things people, cells, molecules, or whatever interconnected in such a way that they produce their own pattern of behaviour over time, and invited us to consider the implications of the idea that any system, to a large extent, causes its own behaviour.With this understanding, we can begin to see that the difference between the Thika Superhighway and the M40 is not that Kenyans are congenitally poor drivers and law breakers and the British are not. In fact, the M40 does have its fair share of pile ups. But the reason you do not find pedestrians dashing across it and buses stopping on it is mostly that such problems have been engineered out. People don t run across it because it is not located where they would need to.We obviously cannot physically move our superhighway but we can begin to ask questions about how and where our roads are built and about the systems governing the behaviour on them.