Harun Ndubi says it was one of those terrible, and forgettable, mistakes of his teen life.He had been a brilliant student in junior secondary school which apparently got to his head. Because of good performance, he acquired some unparalleled confidence. He wanted to join Alliance High School.That was in 1984, the year Ndubi was a Form Four student at St Mary s School, Yala; an academic giant in its own right. But too sure of himself, Ndubi thought he had overgrown it.His teachers who were more experienced, pleaded for caution, to no avail. They then warned him that they wouldn t allow him back in the School, just in case he didn t get the cut off points to Alliance. I was sure of myself and trusted my abilities. I was confident I was going to pass. It was all about Alliance. However as fate would have it, there was to be no Alliance High School in his future. He failed to get the minimum points needed to get into his dream school when the O level results were publishedThere would be no St Mary s School, either.Not at all amused by his unflattering view of the school, his teachers flatly refused to enrol him into Form five.Gendia High School, Kendu Bay, came to his rescue and was enrolled into Form five in the second term of 1985. It was one of those mistakes you unwittingly make and they prove eternally fatal. I am happy it ended well, says Ndubi, who would later study law at university.He has distinguished himself as an advocate of the High Court and a human rights defender, stepping up whenever the state threatens the fundamental rights and freedoms of the citizenry.Shaken by the recent macabre killings of lawyer Willy Kimani, his client Josphat Mwenda and taxi driver Joseph Muiruri, Ndubi says the human rights activists are not threatened with the killings. They have emboldened us because if we succumb to fear we grant perpetrators of such crimes victory. The work of human rights defenders in Kenya is undermined by a wobbly political system that is characterized by lack of values and anchored on greed for power. The system has ethnicised rather than Kenyanised the country because it only mobilises along ethnic and class lines. Ndubi is adamant that Kenyan politics is not for him and that he will not be joining it, any time soon. Kenya politics changes people because it is not issues based. It is about money and the numbers which entrenches grand corruption. C.V.1966: Born in Nyainoga Village, West Mugirangom Nyamira county.1974: Nyainoga Primary School where he did his CPE in 1980.1981: St Mary's School, Yala, O level examination of 19841985: Gendia High School, Kendu Bay A level examination of 1986.1987: University of Nairobi, graduated with a Bachelor's degree in law in 1990.1991: Kenya School of Law and later admitted to the bar in 1992.2000: Executive Director, Kituo Cha Sheria. He built capacity in pro bono legal services, alternative dispute resolution and public interest litigation.Quotes2008: "Considering the political realities, I will not be surprised that there will be political actors who will want to slow down on the implementation of the Waki recommendations. There is political mischief in the duplication of roles between the TJRC and the proposed tribunal. They are hoping that they will cover their tracks because they will have an opportunity to negotiate for amnesty... It is possible that the politicians are using this TJRC as an avenue for self interest."2013: "The institution charged with the regulation of political affairs has displayed a disturbing reluctance to enforce their respective mandate. IEBC has repeatedly shifted timelines for the submission of nomination lists. The Elections and the Electoral Offences Act clearly states their mandate and how they are supposed to conduct the elections. Extending the deadline for submission of the party list is by itself rigging, which is an offence under the Act."2015: Stepping aside was a concept created by the Narc regime to avoid the embarrassment that comes with the suspension of senior state officers who also happened to be political confidantes of the then president. One would argue they served their purpose then. Things are quite different now because the Cabinet does not consist of politicians. the concept is meaningless, hollow and manifestly contradictory. The requirement to have the officers step aside presupposes that it is not a voluntary act. A conditional discharge from ones duty can only be forced on one by the authority above that person. One cannot purport to suspend himself. 