Here we go again! Circulated leaflets are doing the talking in Deputy President William Ruto s backyard of Eldoret. The fliers, scattered all over the town and its environs, have 15 names of Kalenjin sons and daughters sacked by the Jubilee Administration. They include former Chief Registrar of the Judiciary Gladys Boss Shollei and former Kenya Airports Authority chairman David Kimaiyo.This scenario is a pointer to the growing dissent against the ruling party. There is a revolt melting the hearts and souls of many a Kalenjin, making them a restless lot.It is a cry of non-approval of the Jubilee Party s dubious actions. They want out. They are sending a message to JP that they are mulling on their next move politically.A man in the neighbouring Elgeyo Marakwet county was quoted in a section of the press last week saying the community would rather be in the opposition than suffer in the government.This is cause for worry for the UhuRuto duo, sitting pretty perched on their golden towers believing they will again ride roughshod over the community next year. They will be in for a rude shock, I tell you.The leaflets are proof positive that the sham political marriage between the two communities is teetering on the brink of collapse.The Kalenjins are perturbed that, despite having one of their own holding the Number Two slot in the chain of command, they have nothing to show for it.They complain that it is one side of the coalition that is enjoying the four-year-long (so far) meat-eating session as they salivate under the dining table.As I said early this year in one of my commentaries, the so-called Kikuyu-Kalenjin political marriage is just a figment of two people s imagination.They are also aware that the 2022 presidency as promised by Uhuru to Ruto is another big white lie.The literature comes hot on the heels of the recent protests by area Governor Jackson Mandago and his Elgeiyo Marakwet counterpart Alex Tolgos over what they termed as injustice in the hiring of the acting Moi University Vice Chancellor, Professor Laban Ayiro.Another bone of contention is the feeling among the Kalenjins that the Kikuyu community has ran away with all the national cake. This has reignited mistrust among these two communities. There has been particular unease in the Eldoret region even before these leaflets started to circulate.The people are spoiling for an acrimonious divorce or temporary separation.