Another man has come out claiming he is the father of two sisters killed at Mombasa Central police station during what is believed to have been a foiled terror attack.Omar Abdirahman said Maimuna and Ramla Abdirahman were his daughters. The two were killed alongside third suspect Tasnim Yakubu.A man named Abdirahman Hussein earlier claimed he was the women's father. He said in a sworn affidavit that he wanted the unconditional release of their bodies for burial in line with the Muslim customary belief.Read: Mombasa Police station attackers' family want corpses released for burialBut Omar told police: "Let DNA tests be done so their real father can be known."A senior detective, who is privy to investigations, said the revelation may interfere with investigations as DNA tests may need to be done before burial."This is serious. He is the one who has been delaying the post mortems and other exercises. Burial certificates can only be issued to one family member, not two," said the officer who sought anonymity.The detective added that Yakubu had an associate in Yemen, and that several calls were made from Australia before the September 11 attack.Yakubu arrived in Kenya early in May. Kenya has contacted the embassies concerning her nationality and involvement in terrorism."We believe she might have contacted British fugitive 'White Widow' Samantha Lewthwaite," said the source."We strongly believe, through her associate on 'Sisters of Jannah', that she might have been in contact with Lewthwaite. The recruitment exercise is big and only targets high school and college girls. We know Lewthwaite is in Somalia and that she had a hand in this."Read: Is White Widow Samantha Lewthwaite recruiting female Shabaab militants?But Muslims for Human Rights said the women were innocent and had only gone to the station to report a crime.[VIDEO] Cops accused of killing three 'innocent' girls at Mombasa Central police stationJammed guns, no patrol carsPolice constables David Ogoti and Evaresta Juma and corporal Stably Ndara, who were injured in the ambush, were discharged from hospital and are recuperating at their homes.Another senior officer, who did not want to be named, said their medical covers, are only for the "special" among them and do not benefit the less fortunate."These insurance and medical covers are no good. They are never in place and only benefit the special ones," the source said.The Star found that Ogoti was also wounded on September 6 in a terror attack in Bondeni, that forced the insertion of a metallic rod into his right leg.An officer named Matinde Nsebwe was shot five times while manning Gulf Bank in Bondeni on June 26, 2016, but is yet to be fully compensated.A senior doctor at Pandya hospital said Juma jumped from a top floor despite being five months pregnant. She was advised on how to sustain her pregnancy.It has also emerged that officers at the police station use patrol cars from Makupa police station as they do not have their own.In addition, a gun jammed while an officer approached one of the suspected terrorists."They were very lucky. Guns jam frequently and there are no patrol cars. We are in a mess; these issues should be addressed," said another source.Regional police boss Philp Tuimur did not shed more light on the White Widow and the man claiming to be the suspects' father, but said investigations were ongoing."Once the exercise is complete the matter will be made public," he said. "Let's not water down their work; give detectives time to complete investigations."