There's an effort to reignite rebellion in the Rift Valley against Deputy President William Ruto.He and President Uhuru Kenyatta are facing allegations they have unfairly fired key Kalenjins, sidelined and shortchanged the Kalenjin community, a critical vote bloc.The allegations are contained in anonymous list circulating widely on social media among the Kalenjin community.It is not clear who authored the list but it creates the impression 15 high-profile Kalenjins have been unfairly removed from powerful positions in the four years Jubilee has been in power.Whereas some Kalenjins have indeed lost positions, many more have been given plum jobs in government. In some cases, those removed have been replaced by other Kalenjins. This effort to stir up Kalenjin resentment appears to be an attempt to revive last year's Rift Valley revolt against Ruto and Jubilee. It apparently aims to drive a wedge between Uhuru and Ruto, hurting Jubilee in 2017 and Ruto's bid for the presidency in 2022. Last year, politicians, professionals, residents and farmers said Ruto had not used his high office to help Kalenjins. They said the community had lost key government positions, maize and other farmers were suffering, Ruto was inaccessible and treated them like "sacks of potatoes". Campaign pledges had not been met, they said.The insurrection was intense around May, June and July but later subsided, partly because of Jubilee administration beneficence. Between January and March this year, Ruto met most leaders of the mutiny, sorted out problems and appeased most of them.However, conspicuously unappeased was Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto, the DP's former UDF ally. He has launched his own Chama Cha Mashinani party.Yesterday, Kanu official Paul Kibet said Jubilee is likely to suffer another rebellion in the Rift Valley region, mainly because of the way it has mismanaged the agriculture sector, along with appointments in government. Residents of the region are questioning why Kibaki was able to pay farmers Sh3,000 per bag of maize when Kalenjins were considered to be out of government. But with Ruto up there, maize prices are going down," Kibet told the Star.x head xxxThe inflammatory list of job losers includes former police IG David Kimaiyo, former Agriculture CS Felix Koskei, former Registrar of the Judiciary Gladys Boss Shollei, former director of the National Youth Service Kiplimo Rugut, former Supreme Court justice Philip Tunoi, former acting CEO of Kenya Airports Authority Yatich Kagungo, former Energy CS Davis Chirchir and former Kenya Pipeline Corporation CEO Charles Tanui.Also cited are nine senior employees of the University of Eldoret, including Finance official Hosea Sitienei, Professor Ezekiel Kiprop and Security officer Edward Cherogony, among others.But over four years, many other Kalenjins have been given important government jobs. They include Cabinet Secretaries Charles Keter of Energy and Willy Bett of the powerful Agriculture docket. Others are Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet Principal Secretaries Betty Maina of the East African corporation, Andrew Tuimur (Agriculture) and Chris Kiptoo (Trade).Other Kalenjins to benefit are Azario Soi (CEO Kenya Seed Company), Newton Terer (CEO NCPB), Dr Sally Kosgey (Chancellor Taita Taveta University), David Kimosop (CEO KVDA),Wilson Aruasa (CEO Moi Referral Hospital) Lily Chepkorir Koros (CEO Kenyatta National Hospital), David Lagat (Chairman, Lake Victoria Water Services Board), Francis Kipkurui Sang ( Chairperson, Betting Control &amp; Licensing Board), Wilfred Sang (Chairperson, Postal Corporation of Kenya), Michael Bowen (Chairperson, Industrial Development Bank), Richard Ayabei (CEO Agricultural Development Corporation), Joe Sang (CEO Kenya Pipeline Company), Ben Chumo (CEO Kenya Power Company, Sammy Choge (Chairman, Chemelil Sugar Company), Josiah Magut (Chairman, Bomas of Kenya) and David Some (CEO Commission on University Education) Those circulating the list blame Ruto for the job misfortunes of professionals and allege that farmers in the Rift Valley have suffered more under the Jubilee regime than under President Mwai Kibaki. The Deputy President's allies have dismissed the list, describing it as cheap and desperate propaganda aimed at driving a wedge between the President and DP. So many people have left government through various reasons and from all parts of the country. What is unsual about the 15? You cannot pick out some from a certain region and then seek to blame one leader," Nandi Senator Stephen Sang told the Star yesterday.Those from the Rift Valley who left government, and those from elsewhere in the country, went through a standard process that led to their exits and Ruto was not involved, Sang said. In some Cabinet cases, there were allegations of corruption that were not substantiated.Sang said the propaganda will not benefits its authors, adding that Ruto remains the undisputed kingpin of the region, despite smear campaigns by his rivals."Ruto is not to blame for the exit of those listed, and in any case, most of them were replaced by people from the same areas," youth leader Joseph Chumba said.Although Kimaiyo, Koskei and Shollei are interested in running for election next year, only the former police boss openly blamed Ruto, along with Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, for his removal from the police service and the KAA. How can they claim I was incompetent? I will vie for the Senate seat in Elgeyo Marakwet next year and, God willing, my name will also be on the presidential ballot in 2022, like others" Kimaiyo said.Yesterday, Murkomen, who is a key ally of Ruto, denied involvement in Kimaiyo's exit, saying he did not appoint him. People will look for all kinds of reasons to fight Jubilee but it will not work. Ruto is not a petty person to hound individuals. He has worked well with President Kenyatta to ensure that all Kenyans, including people of Rift Valley, benefit from government initiatives and opportunities.