There is need for Kenya to enhance its disease detection capacity in the face of growing global biological threats, Health PS Nicholas Muraguri has said.He said a 2014 national survey on 90 laboratories showed that half the number of the labs handled pathogens that could pose biological threats but most do not have capabilities to mitigate the risks involved. If there is a lesson we have learnt from Ebola, it is about the importance of building capacities so we are able to contain anything unusual at the earliest opportunity to stop it from becoming a regional issue, Muraguri said. He said focus on improvements should be on human resource training, infrastructure and technology upgrade. We need to enhance our capability to identify, consolidate and secure collection of pathogens across all potentially risky labs that deal with human, livestock and agricultural material that are highly infectious, the PS said.Muraguri made the remarks at the Serena Hotel on Wednesday during the National Assembly consultative workshop on the agreement concerning cooperation in biological threat reduction between Kenya and the United States.The meeting marks the final process before the implementation of the agreement signed on July 24 last year by President Barack Obama during his visit to Kenya.Under the agreement, the US government will support Kenya s efforts on infrastructural and human resource training on biological threat reduction.The agreement also provides for tax exemptions on activities related to the implementation. According to the Health ministry, there are global concerns about the potential misuse of biological agents for terrorism purposes, putting biomedical research and labs on security alert. Several international agreements, including the Biological and Toxins Weapons Convention, have urged countries to prioritise implementation of biosecurity against biological threats, which are either accidentally or deliberately released from labs. Biological threat agents are microorganisms that can cause disease and death to people and animals, harm the environment or devastate national economies. Examples include anthrax, pandemic influenza, Zika and the Ebola viruses. We want to be sure those pathogens are secure and we have foolproof systems of how they are handled, be it vaccines at Kemri or any infectious material at universities and labs, Muraguri said. The PS said the execution of the agreement between Kenya and the US will be coordinated by the Health ministry in partnership with the Defence and Interior ministries, as well as other relevant departments upon Parliament s approval.