The release of a senior employee of a state parastal accused of defiling and impregnating a form one student sparked protest from human rights activists in Kitale amid allegations of a plot by the police to defeat justice.This followed the release of the suspect, Ndiwa Muneria, a Kenya seed company employee under unclear circumstances shortly after a local chief handed him to the police at the Kitale police station on Sunday. The administrator said he was surprised when he was informed that the suspect had been released. I actually went to the police station to find out why the suspect had been released and was told by an officer handling the case that he had been set free on a cash bail of sh 30,000, Milimani chief Sylvester Momanyi told journalists.The girl is a student at St Augustine Maziwa Secondary school.The man defiled her at a residential home where her father works as a caretaker when he was away.According to the girl, the defilement happened last Mayn when she was home with her brother. She said her assailant sent her bnrother away to tend after cattle in a nearby field before he grabbed her and defiled her in the house and warned her against telling anybody. He even threatened to have my family evicted from the home, said the girl who is now five months pregnant.It emerged that the suspect approached the girl s father and offered him sh 40,000 as compensation in the presence of a police officer.There was heated argument between two gender activists, Immaculate Shamalla and Boniface Wanyoike and the Kitale OCPD Jackson Mwenga and DCIO Linus Ogwango over the release of the suspect from custody. Shamalla questioned the manner in which the suspect was released by the OCS on cash bail before arraigning him in court."Why has it taken long to present the suspect in court?," asked Shamalla. In response, the OCS, Steve Oloo, said that he released the suspect on a sh 30,000 cash bail to enable him hand over official property at his work place.It was until the activists threatened to mobilize a citizen arrest of the suspect that the OCPD directed the OCS to cancel the bail and re-arrest the man.The turn of events came even as sources claimed the suspect had been released to facilitate a negotiation with the girl s father to settle the issue out of court.The suspect had reportedly promised to pay the girl s father sh 600,000 to enable him buy his family a half acre land.He had also reportedly committed himself to take care of the unborn baby once it was born. "He has already given out sh 400,000 and will clear the balance later," a police source told the Star. A relative to the student, Christopher Wafula, who has been supporting in paying the girl's school fees protested that the man had taken advantage of the family's poor status to ruin the girl's future. We want justice for this girl. We want the man responsible be put behind bars, Wafula said.Shamalla complained of rising cases of defilement in the county and asked police to ensure proper investigations are carried out to facilitate justice of the victims. We are alarmed by the rampant cases of sex assault cases especially on minors," said Shamalla.