Ahmednoor Saleh is convinced that the youth are the leaders of tomorrow mantra has lost its lustre. Tomorrow for him is today and now.In what can simply be defined as yet another David v Goliath contest, Saleh, 25, wants to unseat the 76-year political titan, Yusuf Haji as senator of Garissa county.He is the youngest senatorial aspirant thus far. But he is determined to break the tradition by overthrowing the status quo in the North.His interest in politics came about by accident. It all started back in 2015, when he joined a group of professionals from the region for a 1000km walk from Garissa to the border town of Mandera. It is a walk that changed my life forever, he says with his characteristic smile. I met faces of despair; smiles of hopelessness and hearts of a people committed to change the character of their own society. Dubbed Walk of Hope it was organised by social activists in an attempt to preach harmony among pastoralists to avert perennial bloody ethnic conflicts in the region waged at the altar of resources. I took the walk to have an impact on the lives of the people; to make a difference in their lives however small. Instead the walk influenced my life. The people made a difference in me in a manner I had never imagined. Known among friends as Zidan, due to his passion for football, Saleh is grateful the 2010 constitution brought resources closer to the people. But so too was corruption and mismanagement, he adds, smiling. I made up my mind. These resources had to be insulated from corrupt networks so as to reach out to everyone, says the Starehe Boys and University of Nairobi alumnus. Garissa needs a senator who represents its interests well; a senator who is in touch with the people; creative enough to work with the governor to help improve the welfare of the people; bold enough to ensure the interests of the county are catered for. But the aspirant stays clear of the performance, or lack of it, of the incumbent, Haji, saying as a young man, he cannot discuss his elder. But one things is for sure. My county need new energy. The weight of our generation is on us, he says.While at Starehe, he learnt the virtues of sacrifice and brotherhood; the commitment and passion to serve community, that you are your brother s keeper.He has a message for the young, who aspire to make a difference in society: The young people of this nation. We are the generation of hope. Everyone else has fallen off the cliff of the people that are responsible of everything that is wrong with Kenya. ********1992: Born in Garissa Township1998: Started learning at Garissa Academy until 2004. 2005: He transferred to Harra Primary and did his KCPE in 2006.2007: Starehe Boys Center did his KCSE in 2010.2012: University of Nairobi, graduated with BA degree in International Relations.2012: Ephco NGO, Programme Director at Nomad Green Belt Movement, in Mandera, Wajir and Mandera.Quotes2015: We can t be doing the same maths wrong for all this years and expect a different answer. It s not rocket science it s simple common sense. We have filled the bellies of men and women in our society forgetting our own plight under the tag of our guy. 2016: I am sending a message to the teachers in Garissa county. Under my leadership as your senator you will not be just teachers but the managers of the world s greatest resource; our children. Our global network appreciates the work you are doing and the work you can do in a challenging world of drug abuse, rising crime and radicalisation of our youths. If you elect me there will be an award for the best teacher. Winners will be picked by their students. The award will have an appreciation value for the teacher and any community work they are working on, including a one week trip to the best education promoting nation in the world. 2015: A bucket with a big hole below cannot be full of water just because it s your family s bucket. It s time to think our problems out and solve them. It s 2016 it s not 1602. To be talking about water problems today is absurd, and simply not so good to our conscience as thinking men and women. We cannot be praying for answers and help. God is not going to answer them when he gave you the answer already. Our minds. Our reasoning. 