Most adolescent girls from poor families in Kilifi county cannot ask their fathers for money to buy sanitary pads during their first menstruation periods. They ask indirectly through their mothers or borrow from colleagues, when they reach puberty.Unlike girls who can freely express any differences in their body to their parents, the poor girls cannot openly go near their father, and in case that happens, not in the absence of their mothers. Both parents and the adolescent girls admit that culture refrains them from discussing sexual and reproductive health freely. The girls fear being insulted or regarded as lacking respect for elders.As such, girls risk turning to other men in their search for sanitary towels and other basic requirements, such as body oil, clothes and inner wears. Boda boda operators and other adults lure them with cash for sex. This often leads to early pregnancies and school dropouts. Clothes used as padsThis emerged on Wednesday during the Adolescent Girls Week and Forum events at Shariani Primary School, attended by more than 100 adolescent boys and girls, parents, Christian and Islamic religious leaders. The events were organised by Deutsche Stiftung Weltbevoelkerung, an international NGO advocating empowerment of youths through the Young Adolescents Project in Kenya.Mentors from the YAP project held joint and separate sessions with the adolescents and the parents to discuss the day-to-day challenges affecting girls during adolescence. Parents and clerics held a separate forum with the mentors over the challenges they face in bringing up adolescent girls.Parents were told they have a big role to play in ensuring girls and even boys are not spoilt during puberty. Speakers said in their homes, a girl having menstruation for the first time may not be properly equipped, as parents prioritise getting daily bread.Some fathers tell their wives to show the girls the traditional way of using old piece of clothes during menstruation, instead of buying pads. This is because the little money earned is meant to buy food for the family. Moreover, some adolescent girls live with one underwear and very few clothes. Such challenges put girls at risk of engaging in early sex, as they easily fall prey to sex predators.YAP mentor Ali Ibrahim said girls face big problems during adolescence, which lead to early pregnancy, early marriages, sexual violence and exploitation. Girls normally lack sanitary pads during menstruation. They are exposed to discos and boda boda operators, he said.Ibrahim said since the project started in 2013, they have found the only way to address the problem is to enable parents and the leaders to open up. They encourage parents to talk freely with their children about sexual reproductive health and rights matters.The mentor said early marriage is not a solution, as it denies girls the right to education. It s against the law to marry off a child who gets pregnant early, he said.Ibrahim said the YAP project deals with both sexes equally, as it is the only way they can assist one another through the life skills acquired. Apart from early sex, adolescent boys and girls are usually at risk of engaging in drug abuse and other immoral behaviours.Parent- child relationsThe YAP project equips young adolescents with appropriate sexual reproductive health and rights information to help them make informed decisions about their health and future. It seeks to retain more adolescent girls in school by helping them avoid early pregnancy. The project has helped to create a smooth relationship between adolescents, their parents and teachers. At one point, the parents engaged in a heated debate over the role of parents in bringing up girls at home. Parent Josephine Bakari from Shariani said girls must be free to report the onset of menstruation to their parents. Normally girls get confused in their first periods, she said. As mothers, we must show them how to deal with it and help them get sanitary pads, then advise them on the importance of controlling their bodies to avoid sexual intercourse. She said parents should have regular meetings with their adolescent children, especially girls.Pastor Jonathan Mwalimu of Holy Ghost Evangelical Ministries in Shariani also urged parents to have a close relationship with their girls. The relationship should not be limited to parental level; they must be friends, he said. The pastor said ignorance and culture hinder girls development.Some parents said they question their girls if they dress badly or begin showing immoral behaviour. However, they said, spoilt girls at times do not show their dirt at home. At times, the girls may leave home dressed well, while the indecent attire is carried in their handbags or paper bags to be worn out of home, if the parents are strict.Cleric Ustadh Isaac from Shariani said Muslims who marry off their girls do it on their own, as it is not allowed. He said such parents do it for fear they will become the laughing stock of the society. Debates and playsMore than 100 children from five different schools in Kilifi South took part in debates on the rights of educating a girl child. Children also performed plays, skits, and spoke openly about challenges affecting them during adolescence. Those who performed well were awarded trophies, certificates of participation and first aid kits for their schools.Attendees learned that the advocacy for young adolescent girls is important to nurture their talents and help them achieve their dreams.