Alfred Agoi, Sabatia MP / The 2014 KCSE exam cheating scandal in which 300 Chavakali High School students had their results cancelled and thrust the new MP into the national limelight.MOST Kenyans confuse him with retired Major General George Agoi; the famous soldier who heroically commanded the rescue mission after the 1998 bomb blast at the American Embassy in Nairobi.But Sabatia MP Alfred Agoi bursts into hearty laughter when the Star puts the question to him. I have been asked that question many times, he says, shaking his head in mirthful disapproval. I am not George. He is my uncle. The first term MP, who stepped into Musalia Mudavadi s shoes when he clinched the Sabatia seat in 2013, says he went into business soon after he graduated from the University of Nairobi.He has been in the news lately, after he sponsored amendments to the Kenya National Examinations Council Act, seemingly to insulate candidates from arbitrary actions by the Council, especially in cases of exam malpractice.He was motivated to draft the changes after the Knec authorities cancelled the 2014 KCSE exam results of over 300 candidates at Chavakali High School.Angered by Knec s dithering in the wake of the results cancellation, the MP says the amendments are aimed at giving candidates a say whenever such issues arise.The Act, as it then was, shielded Knec officials from prosecutions in the event of exam cheating while at the same time denying candidates an instant remedy.The only available recourse for candidates was the court process, which, the MP says, was not only expensive, but painstaking and laborious. The purpose of the appeal is to provide a mechanism and limit the time of action so that students could have recourse by way of explaining themselves. Agoi says examination leakage can only be done through collusion with Knec officials because they control the entire process. The old regime badly exposed candidates: The case of Chavakali School was that some candidates were condemned for a crime they never committed, says Agoi, who promises to defend his seat. When the 2017 bell rings, I will go back to my people for consultation before making a decision on my next move. Some of his achievements have included improving education standards in his constituency. A university and technical training institute are under construction in the constituency as one of the ways of ensuring the children from the area excel. Sabatia constituency has no natural resources. The only option we have is to invest in education so that we can export skilled manpower. When the 2017 bell rings, I will go back to my people for consultation before making a decision on my next moveIN FIVE MINUTESLoss in 2007 race did not dampenMP Agoi s spirit1968: Born in Iganga, Vihiga, in the then Kakamega district.1974: Joined Iganga Primary School, where he did his CPE in 1980.1981: Admitted to Chavakali High School for his secondary education. He did his O-level exams in 1984.1985: He moved to Njiris School in Murang a for his high school education. Sat his A-levels in 1986.1987: University of Nairobi for a degree in Economics: He graduated in 1990 and went into business. He has interests in ICT, oil and consultancy.2007: Stood for the Sabatia parliamentary seat and lost on the Kaddu ticket.2013: Elected MP for Sabatia constituency on the UDF ticket. He replaced Musalia Mudavadi.Quotes2015: We have issues about food. We need to know that genetically modified food such as maize, which is coming into our country, is one of the causes of cancer. As we know, diet is one of the major issues that affect and increase cancer cases. We need to ask ourselves, as we license the production of genetically modified products in the market and import products that have a lot of chemicals without proper checks, verification and scrutiny, if we are doing the right thing. Failure to do that will only increase the burden of cancer cases in this country. . 2016: You need to know that I am an endangered species. Mzalendo Kenya is on my case because of not speaking in Parliament. First of all, I want to tell the great people of Sabatia that I am always in this Parliament. I keep on looking for sympathy from the Speaker but, for the first time, he has given me a chance. 2016: We have a major problem of corruption in Kenya. I heard someone say that corruption has become a cancer. I thought that is very bad because, instead of treating cancer so that we can eliminate it, we are now equating it to corruption. That is very bad for the cancer patients in this country, who are suffering. When the 2017 bell rings, I will go back to my people for consultation before making a decision on my next move