Was Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka pleading with ODM leader Raila Odinga to stand up when President Uhuru Kenyatta walked back to his seat after delivering his speech at the burial of former Cabinet minister William ole Ntimama? While everyone else stood up as a show of respect for the President, Raila remained seated as Kalonzo bent to whisper something into his ear. The President had just responded to remarks by Raila by saying, "Kumeza mate si kula nyama (salivating for it is not the same as tasting the meat)"!*******What instructions did Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaiserry give to opposition leader Raila Odinga during the burial of former Cabinet minister William ole Ntimama? Nkaiserry moved close to Raila and spoke to him with a stern expression on his face after the former PM invited ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi to address the mourners. Musalia spoke after Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula had spoken. Nkaissery's grim facial expression suggested the Interior CS was far from happy. Corridors also realized Musalia spoke after Wetang'ula. The protocol implications are large: Raila appears to believe Musalia is outranks Wetang'ula - now that ODM and ANC are in talks for a super coalition.*******A senior Jubilee operative within the Presidency and based at Harambee Annex was heard bragging that the ruling party was increasingly weakening the opposition. On Tuesday night, in a drunken state, the man told whoever cared to hear that soon opposition leader Raila Odinga would be left alone as most of his allies were "broke" and Jubilee had the financial goodwill to bail them out. "The Jubilee Party launch was just a tip of the iceberg. We didn't even spend a lot of money. Just a few hundreds of millions. Imagine what will happen when we open all our purses," the man told his friends at a popular club in the Kilimani area.*******Have governors devised a thuggish way of dealing with their rivals ahead of the 2017 polls? Word has it some governors who face stiff competition have resorted to hiring jobless youths to attack their rivals to ensure they don't remain focused enough to gain any political ground. It is said the impending party nominations against the background of a stringent law barring party hopping after defeat in the process have worsened the situation for the incumbent, stinking rich county chiefs. Word further has it governors whose popularity has dwindled steadily since assuming office in 2013 have began to dish out millions to their impoverished residents to win them over for reelection.