DP William Ruto on Friday asked Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi to support the Jubilee government as a way of returning the favour Mudavadi accorded him during the 2007 general elections.While speaking in Vihiga county, Ruto said if Mudavadi supports Jubilee in the forthcoming elections, he would likely consider him as his running mate in 2022 elections.More on this: Uhuru settled on Ruto as 2022 successor - State House"2007 niliunga Raila na deputy yake alikuwa Mudavadi na niliwapigia debe sana lakini bahati mbaya hawakuingia. Mimi nimefanya ukarabati na nikaomba Mungu sasa niko number mbili, sasa jameni ile nilifanyia Mudavadi si munaweza kunifanyia, Kwani iko shida kurudisha mkono?" he said. This loosely translates to: In 2007 I supported Raila and his deputy was Musalia Mudavadi. I campaigned for them but unfortunately they did not make it. For me I played magic and prayed God and am now at number two. Now what I did to Mudavadi you can now reciprocate. Is there a problem in returning a favor?"Ruto further asked ODM leader Raila Odinga to swallow his pride and give young leaders a chance to lead the country.More on this: Raila is a bad loser, says William RutoHe hit at the opposition for taking advantage of a few misfortunes in the government to feed Kenyans with none issues with intentions to remain relevant in the political arena."Those on the other side are still confused on who to lead the party. If they can not decide on a three man matter will they be able to decide on matters concerning millions of Kenyans?" Ruto said.The DP is expected hold a series of meetings in Kakamega and Bungoma county to market the newly-unveiled Jubilee Party before presiding over funds drives in Lugari and Tongareni constituencies.At the same time, Mudavadi and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula will be in the region at the weekend to woo voters.Read: Raila promises Ruto 2022 backing if Kalenjins support him in 2017Wetang ula will be in Ikolomani constituency in Kakamega county to attend the burial for former West FM employee Millicent Lumati. Mudavadi is expected in his former constituency of Sabatia, Vihiga County for the burial of the late wife of his confidante and prominent Nairobi lawyer Bernard Eboso.On Sunday, Mudavadi will on Sunday attend a church service at Emung'abo GPC Church in Mumias East constituency before addressing rallies at Nyaporo, Shukulu, Kamashia and Shianda markets in Mumias East constituency