The government owes me and the country a major apology for the messy standoff, some months ago, concerning the mishandling of information over the regrettable Al Shabaab attack on the ill-fated Kenya Defense Forces (KDF) camp at El Adde in Somalia, on January 15, to be precise. The latest al Shabaab propaganda video featuring our captured soldier (a medic) Leonard Maingi Kiiyo (native of Makueni) attached to Moi Barracks in Eldoret is a clear indictment of this government for its weird dishonesty over the ongoing war in Somalia. The plight of this soldier and his co-prisoners of war, his worried family members and the demise of the estimated 200 gallant fighters on that fateful day has been at the heart of the clamor for a thorough audit of the KDF operations therein and calls for full disclosure of the El Adde massacre. I was criminalized for protesting for the silent majority unhappy with government s non accountability for the victims. My tribulations kicked in during President Uhuru Kenyatta s annual State of the Nation address inside Parliament when I defied his direction to all in attendance to stand in some moment of silence in honor of Kenyan soldiers who had died or been injured in the anti-terrorism war in Somalia. Everybody stood, but me. I was protesting government mishandling of related information and reported mismanagement of our troops in war. Weeks had passed after the attack without full disclosure of the circumstances of the attack. I was castigated, threatened like a fugitive, terrorized by the State and had my Security withdrawn illegally on the orders of Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery. It wasn t until I sought help from the courts that I got my security back. We are not living in the pre-information era. Sources of information are numerous and they render misinformed efforts by state actors to hide strategic developments from the public crude jokes. Various sources, including from United Nations agencies and reputable international news channels have reported a lot of ills afflicting KDF soldiers inside Somalia. Some have included allegations of poor equipment, command challenges and transgressions, remuneration setbacks and the infamous trade in charcoal by senior handlers for selfish gain instead of concentrating on the war at hand. Surely Uhuru Kenyatta and Jubilee Should know! When confronted with with such allegations government should have moved to genuinely investigate and report the findings to the country. Instead, they buried their head in the sand like the proverbial Ostrich. And as they did that terrorist attacks continued hitting targets in Kenya and KDF camps inside Somalia. The terrorist attacks on El Adde and other camps could be as a direct result of the reported transgressions and challenges including mischief by commanders, insufficient weaponry or air cover or insufficient military communication facilities. These worries some of us a lot because we always approve hefty budgets for our military every year, thus upgrading their equipment and war arsenal should never be a challenge, and especially for the units directly deployed at the battle front. News of the attack and the heavy losses hit many Kenyans like a thunderbolt. Jubilee should have expected any normal citizenry to react with anger. They worsened our fury by hiding information of the tragedy, perhaps because of complicity issues. Kenyans were left to rely on al Shabaab propaganda and international news agencies. Affected families and we leaders got really frustrated and agitated. Hence my protest before the President and the whole bicameral parliament. I was protesting for victims of government indifference and mischief. Alas! What followed was like some people had spotted the terrorist himself in the house. The barrage of condemnations poured out furiously. Right from the Speaker to Jubilee legislators, they spewed terrible anger at me and extended it outside the chamber where an endless chorus to punish me was recited over and over. Nkaissery further personalized the matter by confronting me direct and warned me that I would suffer for my protest. They said I had undermined the authority of the President and that I was disrespectful to KDF and did not value those who had died in defense of the country. Nothing can be farther from the truth. On the contrary, my defiance was out of frustration that our gallant soldiers were being mismanaged in the war hence being put in harm s way while our government was failing to intervene. Like many other silent majority in the country, I wanted a proper account of what had transpired. NB:- THE WRITER IS ODM NATIONAL TREASURER AND KITUTU-MASABA MEMBER OF PARLIAMENT