Former Muthaiga Golf Club Chairman Kanyi Gachoka bagged Sh1 million after sinking a magnificent hole-in-one during Britam 50th Anniversary Corporate golf tournament at the par 72 Muthaiga Golf Club.Britam had designated the par 3, 150 yards 13th hole as the hole in one with a prize tag of Sh1million. Not knowing that lady luck would smile at him on this day, Kanyi came with a few shillings and took to the course with his four-ball. We were having a great four-ball time on the course when we reached the 13th, where I had shot a hole in one some 8 months ago. One of my four-ball said it was a fluke. I kept quiet, took my 7 iron and sunk that ball right in. I m amazed that I have done it again. I thank Britam for the money and for hosting us today. I am going back home a millionaire, said Kanyi.The overall winner was Kieni MP Hon. Kanini Kega with a superb 42 stableford points. Playing of handicap 14, Kanini shot a convincing 19 points in the front nine before concluding the afternoon outing at Muthaiga with a superb 23 points in the back nine. I was to play H.E. The Governor of Nairobi but I got held up and he teed off earlier than me. My four-ball was great and I am delighted since I have not been on this podium for a while. It feels good to win this tournament today. I thank Britam for its continued support for golf as a sport and for the service they give to Kenyans, said Kanini.The men winner position went to handicap 17, Duncan Mwaniki with a superb 42 stableford points made of 22 in front nine and 20 in the back nine. KGU chairman Anthony Muhoro, playing handicap 6, took the men s runner up position with a superb 41 stableford points of 18 and 23 points in the first and second nine respectively.The event attracted a large field of 231 golfers. The lady winner s position was picked by Irene Auma of Muthaiga Golf club. Playing off handicap 26 she shot 18 points in the first nine and followed it with a strong 20 points in the second nine for a total of 38 points.Playing off handicap 12 Susan Kanyoro took the lady runner up position carding 17 in first nine and 19 points in the second nine for a gross 36 points after count back.Joe Muchekehu playing off handicap 8 took the staff winner position with a clean 42 stableford points of 17 and 25 in both front and back nine respectively.Staff runner up position went to Dr. Benson Wairegi, who is also Britam s CEO. Playing off handicap 16, Wairegi shot a satisfactory 38 points of 19 in the front and 19 at the back. This is our 50th anniversary and we are delighted that we have come this far through the support that Kenyans continue to offer this company. We will continue to give you top-shelve services and ensure that you have the best in the market. Our support for golf in Kenya is an ongoing endeavour and we will continue to engage with golfers across the country, said Wairegi.