Kenya might get the approval for direct flights to the United States next month, it emerged yesterday. This is after the US Federal Aviation Administration pushed the final audit of the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport to mid next month, a month after the initial proposed time by the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority. The KCAA director general Gilbert Kibe yesterday said results for the final FAA s International Aviation Safety Assessment audit will be known at the end of next month. They were not able to come this month, but approval for the final audit has been received, Kibe told the Star on the phone. It is confirmed that the audit will be in mid November. By the end of November, Kenya will know if it has attained category one. We are making arrangements now for them to confirm the exact date. This means flights can begin earliest in December. The country has met the threshold required for the JKIA to be upgraded to Category One Status, which is a prerequisite for the direct flights. The government had been tasked to come up with a new Civil Aviation Law, which was achieved when President Uhuru Kenyatta assented to the Civil Aviation (Amendment) Bill 2016 on September 14. The country has also set up a civil aviation tribunal as per requirements. The KCAA has got eight critical elements of safety oversight system required by the International Civil Aviation Organisation. The government has began courting airlines interested in operating flights between the JKIA and the US, Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia said in an interview on September 24. The US has requested us to ask airlines interested in flying directly from Kenya to apply. Direct flight to the US became achievable after Kenya scored 88 per cent in a security audit by the ICAO conducted between September 17 and 24, 2015, above the minimum 80 per cent required mark. This was after failing in previous audits where ICAO gave JKIA 78.42 per cent February last year, up from 66 per cent in 2013. Direct flights are expected to enhance Nairobi s status as a transport hub, promote tourism and increase trade between the two countries. The US is Kenya's second leading tourist market source after the UK.