Political differences between Meru Governor Peter Munya and Kiambu Senator Kimani Wamatangi yesterday played out before the Senate Public Accounts Committee where Munya appeared for the first time to answer to audit queries.Wamatangi kicked off the storm when he told the watchdog committee chaired by Kisumu Senator Anyang Nyong o that Munya made disparaging remarks about him and the committee in meetings in his county last weekend. Two weeks ago I visited Meru county after an invite by my colleague Senator Kiraitu Murungi. As a member of the committee, I raised an issue on non-compliance with summons and I said that governors who will not honour summons will be compelled to do so by police, he said.He explained that after making the comments, the county boss went to meetings and the media and alleged that senators in the committee have nothing to look at in their probes and all they do is make noise. He went further and said Wamatangi ni mkora wa kawaida, ambaye ametembea huku Meru (is a common criminal who s visited Meru) , Wamatangi said. Today I want to tell the governor that I am the Senator from Kiambu county and member of this committee. That was an insult. Nyong o and committee member Kennedy Mong are (Nyamira) faulted Wamatangi for dragging external matters into the committee. We will spare 20 minutes at the end of this sitting to deliberate on your issue. When we are through, we can deal with the issue between the two of you, Nyong o ruled.Munya told the agitated senator to wait and square it out at the political podium. The senator in the company of my opponent [Murungi] uttered tremendous words to me and my position as governor. I can t take it kindly, the governor said. I have been an MP for 10 years and assistant minister. I understand the House procedures. Wamatangi should not drag those issues here. But Wamatangi told Munya to prepare for a political face-off next year.Munya dismissed the audit queries, saying county officials found guilty of embezzling will be dealt with. He was put to task to explain surrendered imprests by county officials.Munya is expected before the committee again on October 14. In July, he did not appear before the committee, despite two summonses. Last month, after he snubbed another summons, the committee threatened to have him arrested.