Gor Mahia Vs City Stars,Today 3pm, Kasarani, My Prediction: K ogalo...2 Stars...1I worry about Gor Mahia. Something isn t quite clicking with the club and coach Marcelo Ferreira appears to be panicking. How else would you describe cancelling the normal two days rest after match day in favour of a vigorous training session. The front line is letting the club down and Meddie Kagere is not proving to us why the club had to part with so much money to retain him. Last weekend, K ogalo have drawn their last two fixures against lowly Ushuru (0-0) and Kakamega Homeboyz (1-1). Marcelo is also thinking of rotating the squad to give hungrier players a chance to play but I m not sure this tactic will work. Their only consolation this week is that City Stars is having a-well-City Stars sort of season. They are in the relegation zone where they seem to sit most of the second half of the season. And how they survive beats me; although the season before last; it was because of FKF/KPL drama that saw no team go down to the second tier league. Gor Mahia s strike force will have to be on point here if they are to close the 5-point gap that Tusker has opened at the top of the stations.Sofapaka Vs Tusker , Tomorrow 3pm, Machakos Stadium,My Prediction: Batoto Ba Mungu... 0 Brewers...2This is already a win for league leaders Tusker but let me write a few comments on the game so that I don t upset my editor. Sofapaka surprisingly earned a point last weekend when they drew 1-1 against Kakamega Homeboyz! A shocking results given that they seem to be losing every week. It s a sad state of aff airs but is heavily refl ective of our disorganised football climate; where many clubs suff er fi nancially leading to poor results on the pitch. Tusker meanwhile, are still on top though Coach Paul Nkata knows they didn t do their best to ensure a win over Chemelil last weekend. Chemelil came from behind twice to draw that game 2-2; even after Tusker forward Alan Wanga had scored in extra time. Yes, Chemelil scored at the death securing a hard earned point. Tusker, however, know that Sofapaka s problems run deep and Nkata will be relying on Wanga to get even more goals this weekend and secure maximum points for the table toppers. AFC Leopards Vs Sony Sugar, Tomorrow 3pm,Nyayo Stadium,My Prediction: Ingwe.....1 Sony.......2 is was supposed to be a weekend for the big boys to reign but I see another draw this weekend and I will tell you why. AFC Leopards have been shooting blanks and last weekend they were fortunate to be awarded a goal that was clearly off -side. In fact, they were lucky not to lose to Mathare who also had a clear penalty denied. I support coach Francis Kimanzi who was livid about the refereeing of that game. Ingwe got away with murder but they won t be so lucky this time around. Sony Sugar have been improving steadily during this second half of the season. From a loss to Ushuru to a draw with Muhoroni Youth to a win over Bandari last weekend. Sony have a mean attack in Jeremiah Wanjala and Marwa Chameberi and they ll be trouble for Ingwe. Haiya! The Ingwe mzungu Ivan Minnaert wasn t fired last weekend. I guess the referee of last weekend s match helped with that but it s just a matter of time before we say goodbye to the under-performing coach. 12th is NOT where Leopards want to be.