Nurses at the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret will go on strike today to demand the implementation of a pay rise agreement and improved welfare. Nurses' union secretary Daniel Osoro said the 21-day notice given to the hospital has expired and the agreement is yet to be implemented. We discussed the agreement with the hospital board and a court ordered it should be implemented, he said. The deal was stopped by the Salaries and Remuneration Commission.Osoro said the SRC should not be involved in the Collective Bargaining Agreement.Hospital CEO Dr Wilson Aruasa said the nurses' grievances will be resolved.By yesterday, Osoro said the union had not received any communication from the hospital management. Sources said the matter may be taken back to the Industrial Court. Last month, the hospital effected delayed promotions for more than 600 workers including nurses. Those hired on contract were also put on permanent terms.Twenty-nine new managers were appointed in the restructuring process.Aruasa said those appointed had gone through interviews by the hospital board of management. The new appointments are line with the hospital board s vision to strategically position (MTRH) as the leading teaching and referral hospital in East and Central Africa region , said Dr Aruasa in a memo confirming the appointments. Among the top appointments include Dr Francis Ogaro who has been confirmed as Deputy Director in charge of clinical services and Dr Phillip Kirwa who will be the Chief Medical Specialist (Obstetrics and Gynecology).Emmanuel Koros is the new Head of Public Relations and Marketing while his deputy will be Consolata Chepchirchir. The hospital board also appointed Dr Christine Tonui as Senior Assistant Director for Administration while Thomas Ngetich is the new Finance Manager.Other appointments include that of Titus Bartilol who will be the new Chief Accountant while Evans Kiprotich will be the chief supplies and procurement officer of the hospital. All the other appointments are contained in the memo and take effect immediately following approval by the board.Dr Aruasa was appointed early this year to take over from Dr John Kibosia who had served as CEO and Aruasa has already initiated changes to further turn the hospital into a fully fledged referral hospital.Since he came in the government has confirmed all employees who were working on contract and it has also effected delayed promotions for more than 600 staff mostly nurses. Dr Aruasa has also signed MOUs with Uasin Gish and Elgeyo Marakwet counties to help improve health service delivery.The hospital has completed a new Renal Unit which will now admit 40 kidney patients for Dr Aruasa says the hospital could only handle 15 patients previously but it will now handle more including kidney treatment for children.Aruasa says the hospitals have also expanded its capacity to carry out kidney transplants. The hospital is training more experts to handle the kidney ailments including for children. We are asking patients with kidney ailments not to look outside the country for solutions because we now have the best facilities to offer any kind of medication they require at cheaper costs , said Dr Aruasa.