GG has just walked out on me, totally unfazed by my threats to keep what he thinks is his baby. Well. That didn t go very well. The waitress returns. She pours another glass of wine. Is everything ok? she asks, clearly wondering why I ve been abandoned by my date. Yes, everything is fine, thank you, I respond. I m not sure what to do. I should probably leave but I stay rooted to my chair. It s a weird feeling, when you think you re going to make a whole load of cash and you are so close Then it eludes you. How freaking frustrating! The fact that this scam worked earlier is little consolation. Greed: Intense and selfish desire for something.My phone rings. It s Mr N. This time I answer.Me: Hello? Mr N: You are a hard girl to reach.Me: Yes, well Mr N: How did it go?I lean back in my chair, happy to share my humiliation with someone. My partner in crime is as good as anyone, I suppose. Me: GG has just walked out on me. He s calling my bluff. Mr N: Really? Interesting Me: He said that he s not the type of guy to be blackmailed and walked out. Mr N. Interesting. Me: Is that all you re going to say?Mr N: You made the threat about telling his wife? Me: Yes.Mr N: Interesting. Me: Very limited vocabulary we re having today Mr N: I need to think about this. I didn t expect that.I take a sip of my wine. I might as well keep myself occupied while he comes up with a different word than interesting . The lounge has emptied out. I m alone save for one couple.Mr N: How about the VIP?You might recall that the CS crumbled before my eyes and agreed to pay everything I asked for. He wrote out three cheques for me that are sitting in my bag at this moment. But why should I tell Mr N? The way I see it, the VIP will never speak about this to anyone. If I tell him, I will have to split the money. If I say nothing, I get to keep it all. It s a no-brainer. There s no honour among thieves. Me: It was worse. Much worse. He threatened to have me arrested.Mr N: What?Me: I m not sure I should have gotten tangled up in this. I could go to jail! Mr N: I m so sorry, Samantha. I know these guys well. I never for a minute thought they wouldn t pay up. There is an awkward silence. He s thinking about how he underestimated his friends and I m thinking how na ve he is to just take my word for it. Me: So what do we do now?Mr N: Leave the VIP alone for now. That s too risky. But stir up the waters with GG. Me: How? Mr N: I know someone who works for Mpasho news. Let s send a cautionary salvo. Me: What will it say? Mr N: Read it tomorrow. I remove a few notes from the wad of cash GG gave me and pay the bill. It s time to go. I leave a hefty tip. The service has been good. All in all, this has been a pretty productive day. I made 2,050,000. Tomorrow, I will read about what Mr N comes up with for his friend. It s sad really, what people you are close to can do to you. Mr N has set up these men. And for what? A few millions? He is rich! For me, it s a fortune that I will never get my hands on. For him, its peanuts. So why do it?