Kenya will be the first country to introduce new child-friendly TB medicines globally.From October 1, any child diagnosed with tuberculosis will be given the medicine.The new fixed-dose combinations are improved formulations of currently used medicines recommended for first line TB treatment.The strawberry-flavoured drugs do not need to be cut or crushed to achieve an appropriate dose. Previously parents or guardians who had children suffering from TB would get a fixed combination of three different medications with several pills. In some instances, caregivers were expected to break tablets to suit the weight of the child. It also led to a high pill burden for the children and possibly known and unknown side effects, director of Medical Services Jackson Kioko said.He spoke during the launch of the new drugs at a Nairobi hotel.Killer diseaseTuberculosis, the fourth leading cause of death in the country, is spread when an infected person coughs or sneezes.The infection, diagnosed in 6,968 children last year, is often misdiagnosed the first time.Joseph Sitienei from the Health ministry says children are not born with TB. They become infected after being around an infected adult, he said. When we hug our children, when we kiss them, we could actually be infecting them with TB. That is how a child who was born without TB ends up getting it, Sitienei said. Children who are more exposed to infectious persons are likely to develop TB. Younger children are more likely to develop severe forms of the disease. MisdiagnosedNdolo Muthui, a seven-year-old girl from Kwale county, shared her story during the launch. She was diagnosed with extra-pulmonary TB this year, which affected her spine. The front part of the chest was also deformed as a result of the bend in her spine. She is currently wearing a corset to help support her.She is one among many children who are infected with TB and misdiagnosed.Data from the Ministry of Health shows that 81,518 people were diagnosed with TB last year. In Nairobi alone 12,000 people were diagnosed, the majority of whom live in informal settlements.Some of the counties that are still recording high TB infection rates are Nairobi, Turkana, West Pokot, Samburu, Isiolo, Tharaka Nithi, Kirinyaga, Meru, Embu, Migori, Homa Bay and Kisumu.