The KNCHR and other rights organisations will take part in a march on Monday for audience with the President on the citizenship of Makonde community members.The Makonde are among stateless people who have been in the country for decades. They said their quest for registration has not materialised despite promises by the government.The Kenya National Commission on Human Rights will join the people in trekkiing from Kwale county to State House in Nairobi for a meeting with President Uhuru Kenyatta.The march will be flagged off by Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya, rights group CEO George Kegoro and Makonde community chairman Thomas Nguli.The walk was planned after the lapse of the deadline for the registration of stateless people in August.Nguli said they had expected to have IDs by now since the government carried out a registration exercise last year. He said they were yet to. The government should do something. We need to be registered and be citizens like other people," he said. "Our forefathers came here before independence and worked at sisal and sugar plantations. We have nowhere else to call home."Mvurya assured the community that he will follow up on the matter through relevant government organisations. My office recognises the struggle which these people are going through. That is why we supported the process to have them registered as Kenyans, he said.He noted his administration will continue supporting the people until they are registered as Kenyans.About 1,570 stateless people were registered in an exercise that began in Kwale county on February 12, 2015.The exercise targeted the Makonde from Mozambique, Tanzania's Wapemba, Rwandese and Burundians who lacked identification papers.Principal Registrar of Persons Aggrey Masai said then that the processing of their IDs would be hastened.More on this: Kwale registers 1,570 stateless people in ongoing exerciseBut in September, KNCHR manager Diana Gichengo asked Uhuru to explain the delay in registering stateless people saying institutions mandated with the responsibility should have extended the August 30 deadline. It is so unfortunate that the deadline has lapsed yet there is not a single stateless person who has been registered, said Gichengo.She condemned the task force formed to address the matter, saying all it have done is waste taxpayers' money. It has been two years yet the task force has not submitted any report and recommendations on the issue. This is wrong, she said, adding the government should not make empty promises.Read: Issue ID cards to stateless KenyansAlso read: Hope for stateless Makonde people as fight for recognition bears fruit