One of Kenya's most celebrated comedians Herman Gakobo Kago aka Professor Hamo has lost his loving dad.The sensational comic's dad, whom he recently introduced to his adoring fans during one of the live recording sessions of popular TV show Churchill Show, died on Wednesday night following a heart attack.Iconic comedian Daniel Ndambuki aka Churchill took to his social media pages on Friday morning to announce the sad news.He wrote: "Please join me in condoling our very finest #ChurchillShowComedian Professor Hamo who lost his dearly beloved father through a heart attack on Wednesday night."Give him words of encouragement and hope at this trying moment. All shall be well @ProfHamo."Read: I suffered low self-esteem - Professor HamoProfessor Hamo with his dad and mum on Churchill Show.Following the announcement, Hamo's adoring fans went out to condole him.Ian Fitch wrote: "Prof Hamo don t worry, be strong brother, I know now he is watching you from up there, a place where there is no pain, or suffering... Take heart, na ujue we are with you in thought and prayer. May he rest your dads soul in eternal peace. Amen."Mercykinanu Mukindia posted: "My condolences to you my favourite comedian. At this trying moment may our good Lord comfort you n your family. God is our comforter. He is our strength. Remember the good times you were together. It is well. May His good soul rest in eternal peace."Alfred Vybz Ateka wrote, "Young man, I love your work, etiquette, discipline, hardwork, respect and determination, endure this challenge now, as you always say "Mungu ni mwema" I expect God to comfort you, rest your dad in eternal peace, have courage and be strong Hammo!!! A blessing to many.... dad you left us a blessing Hammo!!!"Ruto Mercy Cherotich said: "Oh no. Pole sana Hamo. May the Lord strengthen you and give you peace that surpasses all human understanding. It is difficult but you will get through it. It is well. May his soul rest in eternal peace. Amen."Our heartfelt condolences to Hamo and his family. Mungu ni mwema!