I think at the forthcoming election ethnicity will still be the major factor. But I also think that reducing the number of political parties is a positive move in cutting down on ethnicity in politics: The fewer the political parties going into the election, the better.Two or three political parties/coalitions would make it difficult for people to retreat into community/regional political parties and cut the attendant nonsense of joining the our own party so we can negotiate type of politics.Second, I think we really need to see a leader arise who can harness the vote potential of young people. As a lecturer for many years, I know very many young graduates personally. As I walk around in the various towns that my current job takes me to, I come across some of these young people. And most of them, across ethnic divides, are struggling, without any hope of a good job on the horizon.Many are underemployed, some even engaged in menial jobs to make ends meet. None of the political parties is thinking about their needs and aspirations. All that they hear from so-called leaders is the narcissistic message, Register and vote for me, because I m entitled to your vote by virtue of your belonging to my community. Yet you cannot blame these young people, or indeed their parents: They have played by the rules; they have done their bit; they have gone to school and worked hard to acquire an education; their parents have made great sacrifices, most have invested all their earnings in educating these young people. And yet it seems that it was all for nothing, as the future grows ominously darker by the day. If someone harnessed that vast pool of discontented young people, it would transform Kenya s politics forever.We need to loosen the tight grip that money has on our politics. Our politics really need to be organized around something more than who has money, and who can dish out how much, and the mobilizing of ethnic numbers when elections approach.I fully support the idea of cutting down how much money you can spend in campaigns.It is a shame that after 53 years of Independence you still find villages where the candidate turns up with a bagful of Sh50 notes, and everybody stampedes to get their share of the money, with no discussion whatsoever of the issues central to the election.Dr Manyasa is the Country Coordinator for Uwezo Kenya