More than 100 police officers yesterday stood guard to prevent disruption during the 32nd graduation ceremony at Moi University.There were fears of possible disruption by politicians. On Tuesday, politicians led by Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago stormed the institution to protest against the appointment of Prof Laban Ayiro as acting vice chancellor.Mandago, his Elgeyo Marakwet counterpart Alex Tolgos and several MPs threatened to stop the graduation unless Prof Isaac Kosgey is installed as the VC. The government, however, ordered them to keep off the institution.Yesterday, Mandago said he and the MPs did not demand for a Kalenjin to be installed as VC. He said all they wanted was due process to be followed in the appointment. It s wrong that what we said as leaders has been blown out of proportion. We are not tribalists. If Kosgey led during the interviews, then he should be given the job on merit, not because he is a Kalenjin, he said.Mandago said his sentiments were recorded and at no time did he make tribal remarks against Ayiro.Today, the university will hold another graduation ceremony. A total of 5,000 students will graduate at the end of the two ceremonies.Moi University chancellor Prof Miriam Khamadi presided over the event yesterday. She said the university administration must accommodate all communities and help to strengthen national cohesion.Khamadi said the university is a national institution and welcomed the appointment of Prof Ayiro as the acting VC. Moi University is home to all Kenyans and we must nurture cohesion. I thank the council chairman and incoming vice chancellor for the way they have handled the transition, she said.Khamadi said the university operations should be free from external interference. She said Moi University is unique, because it s the only one in Africa with aerospace training programme. She was with Ayiro and the university council chairman Prof Jenesio Kimanyario.All politicians from the region skipped the event. Sources say they were not happy with the heavy condemnation they attracted nationally after storming the institution to stop Prof Ayiro from taking over. The leaders accused Education CS Fred Matiang i of planning to block a Kalenjin from taking over the VC s position. Matiang i did not also attend yesterday s event.Yesterday, Ayiro said he will ensure unity among staff.