Watching the funeral of William Ole Ntimama this week, I was surprised to see how it was politically dominated.However, my conscience tells me that funerals are the wrong forums for politics and expression of ethnic differences. Being that as it may, I have even seen politics turn funerals into battle fields where people attack and hack each other, not with words, but matchets, spears, and clubs.In funerals we are supposed to display our compassion and grief, not our political and fighting prowess, exactly what we do.I am convinced that the politics we do in funerals, can be done elsewhere without a conflict of conscience. But if we must do politics at funerals, let us do civilized politics where we do not attack each other and disrupt funerals that are supposed to be solemn occasions whose aim is to eulogize and say farewell to the dead.As it is, funerals have now become main campaign rallies where political parties ask for votes even from the dead, merely because they are free well attended occasions that political leaders don t pay for.Because they are free, politicians keep a roster of funerals they will attend not to mourn with the bereaved but to shamelessly ask for votes. One would also have thought that leaders would be embarrassed to walk into funerals, not to empathize with the bereaved, or shed a tear or two for the dead whom they may not have known at all, but to fight political battles. After politicizing funerals which we must not, we commit another sin of untruthfully canonizing the dead into heroes merely to curry favor with mourners who are also voters. It is shocking to see leaders praising known criminals and thieves into angels, whom we know they are not. One would have thought that, at funerals, leaders would have the courage to praise and in equal measure criticize the dead from whom we should learn. After identifying strong and weak points of the dead, mourners and their leaders should then commit themselves to learn from both their good and the bad sides.I had no personal grudge with William Ole Ntimama, but at his funeral I was glad to hear of his exceptional value of courage especially in defending land rights of the Maasai people.But good as defending Maasai rights was, it is part of well known Kenyan history about how Ntimama used the excuse of defending Maasai rights as an excuse of evicting Kikuyu and Kisii people from lands they had legitimately acquired among the Maasai in violation of an inter-ethnic tradition that has always allowed the Maasai to cohabit with their neighbors. The ethnic cleansing that Ole Ntimama was accused of orchestrating was not in pursuance of Maasai rights but to dissuade their neighbors from pursuing multiparty democracy against one party dictatorship.If arguments of Ole Ntimama pursuing Maasai rights were to be made at the funeral, they should have been made together with those of Ntimama the political conservative using eviction of political opponents to block the advent of multi-party democracy.Kenyan government was rightly very generous with the burial of William Ole Ntimama. It was state funeral that President Uhuru attended and government spent a whooping 33 million shillings upon it. Yet Ntimama was eulogized more as a Maasai leader than as a Kenyan leader.I tend to believe Ntimama was given a state funeral more in order to fish for Maasai votes than in his own right as a Kenyan hero. I also believe the opposition attended the funeral more for votes than to express sympathy.Without denying Ntimama s contributions to the service of Kenya, I will compare him with Martin Shikuku and Mark Mwithaga whom I also believe deserved state funerals that were never given, more because their state burials would not have attracted votes than because they did not deserve. Looking at the histories of both Shikuku and Mwithaga, both were champions of fighting for independence, democracy and human rights against the excesses of British colonialism and one party dictatorship under both Presidents Kenyatta and Moi. They were also detained and incarcerated as their sacrifice for the freedom we enjoy today. Is the honor these two national heroes were denied retrievable albeit posthumously?Koigi wa Wamwere,