In Kenya negotiated democracy is not just a negation of democracy as the will of the majority expressed in a free and fair election that everybody is free to partake in to determine best leadership that people deserve on basis of merit and not coercion from any quarter. But rather than seek the best possible democracy, some people in Kenya will do anything to sabotage popular governance and replace it with other forms of governance like negotiated democracy that subverts and kills democracy in the name of implementing and improving it.One form of negotiated democracy is suit voting that in 2013 persuaded voters to elect leaders they did not know and who disappeared from them as soon as they were elected, merely because their top leaders told them they were their best leaders.When people express frustration, dissatisfaction and strong desire to vote these leaders out and they are asked why they elected these same leaders in the first place, they say it was because they were told to do so by their leaders as part of their party s suit. Indeed they say, at election, they were voting for a party suit or lineup and not candidates that would make their best leaders.With a myriad of weaknesses, the worst disqualification of suit voting is its total disregard for merit in leadership. According to suit voting, leadership requires no merit or qualification and anybody including an animal may lead as long as they are in the party s suit. Indeed, suit voting is devised by individuals who hate merit, good leadership and collective development and is contrived to champion individual at the expense of people s interests. On this account, people should avoid it as they do leprosy. With these characteristics, suit voting ensured Kenya got the worst possible leaders. With warps and all however, suit voting is justified because it is people or community s presidential candidate s preferential working team in parliament. Unfortunately, most of these suit products do not even prove good troops for the president.Notwithstanding, President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy have declared they have no preferences in coming elections and will work with anybody whom people will vote for. Accordingly, Jubilee top leadership will not support any suit voting or negotiated democracy that anybody may contrive. With suit voting exposed and rejected by President Kenyatta, enemies of merit have now discovered another device with which to cheat voters by seeking to distribute top leaderships of Governor, Deputy Governor, Senator, Women Rep and Speaker to the larger Nakuru North, Nakuru Town, Nakuru West, Nakuru East and Kuresoi.Unfortunately, this new negotiated democracy whose purported benefit is to guarantee every region a top job, will sacrifice merit for regional balancing whose only qualification is where one comes from while each one region will choose for the other regions leaders who may not be the most qualified for the jobs that will be allocated to them as reps of their regions but serving entire County. Yet with more or less equal education, regional balancing must be combined with merit which is hardly mentioned by its promoters suggesting the purpose of negotiated democracy is hardly public good.Regional balancing must never be at the expense of merit. It should combine with it since merit is found everywhere in Nakuru County among people of all communities.Were it to work, the only people that regional balancing should exclude would be those who don t reside in the county since they would not technically qualify to represent the county in parliament.On the overall, regional balancing and negotiated democracy are undemocratic because their decisions are determined by a few people and only endorsed or rubber stamped by voters.Like other forms of negotiated democracy, regional balancing also sacrifices merit for tribal or rich leaders who may do much for their benefactors but end up delivering nothing to the people. If Kenyans want good leaders, let them keep away negotiated democracy and those leaders it will produce. Equally it must keep away its mutations of regional balancing, clannism, rotational presidency and ethnic balancing.Ultimately, it is negotiated democracy and its mutations that will bring Kenya down. To give Kenya best leadership, let all our communities keep away negative ethnicity, negotiated democracy, clannism and regional distribution of political leadership that does not rely on merit.