Behind every successful man, there is a woman. But what happens when the same successful chap has a strong lady pushing him to the limits, despite criticisms, heartbreaks and life's obstacles? You can be sure the lady is a queen, who is unknowingly grooming a king.Let's talk about one of our celebrated heroes shall we?Infact, lets talks about the world's most celebrated hero or if you like King Julius Yego. This is the man who single handedly brought the continent to it's knees before conquering the international arena with his gold-medal worthy javelin heroics.Just a simple reminder, this man Yego turned his dream into a reality, making it possible for others to believe in their dreams as a result. All this is thanks to his determination, resilience and utter hard work that saw the YouTube star become a household name soon after he stormed into the scene.Born in in Cheptonon (Saba River) location in Tinderet, Nandi District 27 years ago, he's not only revolutionized the sporting world but has already won hearts, both young and old across the globe with his mighty achievements. His humility has kept him focused on what is important ever since his debut half a dozen years ago.But it's fair enough to say that the 2016 Olympics silver medalist could not have made it this far without his beautiful wife, Sincy Chemutai's support and inspiration.Mrs. Yego has managed to keep a low profile only making countable public appearances most times when she is seeing off or receiving her king, before and after his javelin competitions. and .In my usual stroll on the inter webs I happened to bump into photos of Julius Yego and his son enjoying the country's beautiful scenery. Well what caught my eye was a number of people pouring their heartfelt messages to the champion with a number quick to ask; "The king and the prince, but where is the queen?".And guess who came through in the same comment section? His beautiful wife.She wrote; "My God given family, looking handsome both. Missing you big."As inquisitive as I am, I decided to check out her profile to satisfy my suspicions and viola! It was indeed the queen behind the African king of javelin's success.Check out her photos below.