Name: Susan KinuthiaOccupation: CEO and Owner, Ruzena NaturalsKinuthia s company manufactures handmade products for natural hair and sensitive skin. It has three natural soap variants: a shampoo bar, hair and body butters, as well as black castor oil, among other cold-pressed oils.7AMI get up to say a prayer with my kids and see them off to school. I then take two hours to meditate, clear my mind, write down the things I m grateful for and set my tone for the day. 9AMI prepare breakfast, which is pretty much a cup of coffee or hibiscus tea. I never have an appetite in the morning, I eat properly from noon.9.30AM-10.30AMI get to work as soon as I get online. My shop is online and that is where I interact with 80 per cent of my customers; so I can work from anywhere, as long as I can access the internet, I don t need to be behind a desk. I reconcile orders of the day from Ruzena social media pages, emails and texts. The delivery man comes in at 10am. We go through the orders and dispatch them. 12PMI attend meetings. I do personal consultations on matters skin and hair. Some of my clients like personalised service and request that I see their skin or hair first before I recommend products. 4PMMy workday ends at around this time. I go back home and go through homework with my boys and catch up on how everyone s day was. 6PM We have dinner. I watch an episode or two of Trevor Noah s stand-up comedy before bed, just in case I forgot to laugh during the day. I then cuddle up with a good e-book before calling it a day. I m currently reading Self Made by Nely Galan. WEEKENDSI have events mostly on Saturdays. I love themed markets, street festivals and garage sales. I ve been selling my products at the Organic Market in Karen every Saturday since August last year until recently, when I ve had to try out other new opportunities. I make baby shower and bridal shower gift packs, so I find myself attending a good number of them and where I do short segments on skin care. On Sundays, after church, it is family day through and through. I love cooking for my family and trying out new recipes. From time to time, my girlfriends and I do pot luck parties so that our children can play together.