Kenyans Stanley Biwott and Mary Keitany will return to the streets of New York City s five boroughs on November 6 to defend their titles. Biwott will be chasing his second title while Keittany is eyeing the third consecutive TCS New York City Marathon titles.The duo will go for a fourth-straight Kenyan sweep of the New York City Marathon titles, headlining a star-studded field that also includes 18 Olympians and three celebrated American women making their marathon debuts. We are thrilled to welcome back Stanley and Mary in what is one of the most celebrated TCS New York City Marathon fields in recent memory, said Peter Ciaccia, president of events for New York Road Runners and race director of the TCS New York City Marathon. Our professional athlete field is stacked with international champions and Americans who are changing the face of long-distance running in our country. It s a great group to celebrate the 40th anniversary of our five-borough course. Biwott, 30, will race the five-borough course for the third time, having won the 2015 TCS New York City Marathon after breaking through in the final two minutes to finish in 2:10:34. He was fifth in his New York City debut in 2013, and since then has finished as runner-up at the Virgin Money London Marathon in both 2014 and 2016. Biwott was part of the lead pack at the Rio 2016 Olympic Marathon before dropping out mid-race. His half-marathon best of 58:56, run at the 2013 Ras Al Khaimah Half-Marathon in the United Arab Emirates, currently ranks him as the 13th-fastest man in history. New York is special to me because it was here I won my first title in the Abbott World Marathon Majors, Biwott said. After last year, my name has been spread worldwide, and I have been considered among the top athletes in the world. That s why I always like to return to New York, where I left a piece of my heart. Keitany, 34, has won the TCS New York City Marathon each of the last two years, and with a victory this year she would become the first female able-bodied runner to win three consecutive New York City Marathon titles since Grete Waitz claimed five straight wins from 1982 to 1986. Keitany, who represented her country at the London 2012 Olympics, made her marathon debut at the 2010 New York City Marathon, snagging the third spot on the podium. Keitany is the second-fastest woman in history and the Kenyan record-holder (2:18:37). The mother of two is also the 2011 and 2012 London Marathon champion, the 2009 IAAF World Half Marathon champion, and the former half-marathon world record-holder (1:05:50). I am very excited again to go to New York and defend my title, Keitany said. I am happy that I will get to try and defend for the third time, because I have won in 2014 and 2015. This year, I am very excited and happy that, if it is possible, I can win for the third time and can make history. If you win two or three times, it is not easy. If you do it, you can make history. The two defending champions and the rest of the international athletes will join a previously announced talented American professional runner field that includes 12 men and 13 women who participated in the 2016 U.S. Olympic Team Marathon Trials and three athletes who will be making their marathon debuts. Two-time Olympians Molly Huddle and Kim Conley, along with U.S. triathlete and Olympic gold medalist Gwen Jorgensen, will make their highly anticipated marathon debuts in the women s field, while three-time Olympian Dathan Ritzenhein will race the five-borough course for the third time in the men s field.