Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi has disowned media reports that he has pledged to work with President Uhuru Kenyatta. Kingi dismissed an article in one of the local dailies suggesting that he has shifted from ODM to Jubilee Party.He has asked the Daily Nation to rectify the article and apologise for misrepresenting facts.According to the article published on Monday, Kingi had committed himself to working with the Jubilee government on development projects for the benefit of residents in the county. I have received several calls from people of Kilifi and everyone was complaining that I had betrayed them by working with a government that cares less about them," the Governor said on Monday. More on this: Coast remains ODM stronghold, Kilifi Governor says as Jubilee tour looms"I could not understand why they were saying this until I read the papers. The information is very wrong and I have never dreamt of working with the Jubilee government, he added.Read: Why Jubilee must walk extra mile to dislodge ODM from the CoastKingi, who was accompanied by Kilifi Senator Stewart Madzayo and several MCAs, said his working relationship with the national government is as stipulated in the Intergovernmental Relations Act."The journalist who wrote this article came here to interview me and what I told him is that we have very [few] projects from the national government and they came very late. I am wondering where he got all this," Kingi said. "I have talked to him over the phone and he could not answer my questions. What I want is an apology," he added.[PHOTOS] Jubilee supporters endorse Mung'aro as Coast kingpin, Kilifi governorKingi said he has been a critic of the Jubilee administration and an ardent follower of Raila Odinga's ODM, which sponsored him to clinch the Kilifi governorship.Already, a group of ODM youth in the county were planning to hold demonstrations to condemn Kingi s decision to decamp to Jubilee.Kilifi North ODM youth leader Asili Randani said the article had demoralised many youths who were sure of Kingi s firm stance on party matters. We cannot allow him to work with a government that has no plans of alleviating the poverty in our region. We saw him as a traitor, said Randani.But Kingi said his allegiance to ODM still remains. Journalists must publish facts. I want to believe that this was not done with an aim of discrediting me against other leaders, he added.