On a basic level, a sale is exchange. In a competitive market, this simple angle is vital for sales success. So how do you apply this thinking to help you win and increase sales in the marketplace? To do this, you have to think about the elements that ensure successful exchange. One element is trust. This is a huge aspect of sales. No trust, no sales. The exchange in a sales relationship must be mutually beneficial to all parties involved hence, trust is a must. Can the entrepreneur be trusted to consistently deliver on what she has promised? The lack of trust alters the flow of any transaction. If this is true, what systems do you have in place to create and sustain trust? Sales is no mystery. In addition to trust there s the principle of common interest. The entrepreneur s passion and the customer s need must have a meeting point for sales to occur. If you re passionate about real estate, you ll make money from people who want homes or business space because your passion is in line with their need. You must align with your customers interests to keep them interested. Another principle to consider is why? This is one of the biggest challenges for many entrepreneurs. I know you re eager to make sales, but why should people buy from you? Do you have good reasons? And most importantly, do prospects agree?Sales is an argument in the marketplace. And like a lawyer in court, if your argument is strong and good enough, you win. If not, you lose. Customers will not part with their hard-earned cash without a good reason. To sell successfully, you must have strong support for your ideas and tell us why we should pay what you re asking. In this case, a weak argument means weak sales. Therefore, instead of engaging traditional sales practices that now put people off, educating prospects is the new and better approach. Since people want to know why they should buy from you, you ll need to find ways to teach them. Skilled sales people engage customers with the aim of making them better informed. One last principle: be authentic, no gimmicks. It s easy for people to see through shady deals. And once a buyer senses your crooked intentions, they move on. To sustain sales, you have to be sincere. These days, fraudulent entrepreneurs get crucified on social media you don t want that. Stay truthful about your offering and sales will be your reward.Twitter: @SamuelMpamugoBlog: theyouideology.com