 Democracy is so overrated. So said the fictional narcissistic American politician Frank Underwood, who rose to be President in the political television show House of Cards. As a Kenyan, I find it near impossible for one not to get the gist of that oh-so-profound statement. We have the privilege to gift ourselves with the autonomy to select those to whom we entrust the power of governance. But we precariously compromise our invaluable lives owing to what I can plainly term sheer unnecessary ignorance, which likens us to primitive life forms that lack the most basic instinct of self-preservation.The worst thing about democracy within such a society is that the ignorant majority condemns with it the conscious minority and that can only be termed a sorry state of affairs. The unfortunate fact that the general standard of my living is lowered not by my own doing, but by that of a misled people, that abuses constitutional privileges, makes me wonder where democracy the most viable system of governance(for now) went wrong.I d confidently aver that our misfortunes are a result of the acceptance by a vast majority that the way things are is the way they always will be, just as they have always been. The thing that vexes me the most is the people s unwavering support for regimes that openly disregard their inherent dignity. Take the launch of the Jubilee Party for instance. Call it JP or call it the amalgamation of political parties that clinched power at the last general election. Call it whatever you want. The players are still the same.The funniest (in a twisted and sad way) thing about this rebirth is that billions were spent to cover the event when purely preventable deaths are common in tax-funded health facilities. It beats logic that our callous leaders command a phenomenal cult following when they literally do nothing for the general growth of Kenya as a nation. What s even worse is the phenomenal cultic following they command that makes absolutely no sense if Kenyans are presumably a self-conscious people.I understand that the country is becoming a capitalist state, but that cannot come close to justifying the ever-growing disparity between the poor and the wealthy catalysed by the gluttony of the custodians of bestowed leadership. If that should be the state of things, then I wouldn t mind living under a communist regime, however scary that might seem.The way I see all this, the one thing that most effectively serves to depict our leaders as enemies of the Motherland is the fact that they can actually pin a price on the lives of their subjects. Yes, subjects. When you value the exaltation of your money maker in the embodiment of your redefined and re-energised political party over the welfare of the sickly who can barely afford food for their frail, clueless and innocent children, let alone healthcare then nothing more need be uttered save for the assertion that you kill Kenyans day by day through your omissions. That is not by even the broadest of definitions close to being a leader.