The Senate Public Accounts Committee was yesterday forced to adjourn its sittings after two governors failed to attend.Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua and his Taita Taveta counterpart John Mruttu were to appear before the watchdog committee to respond to audit queries in the 2013-14 Auditor General's report.Mutua, through acting county secretary Grace Munguti, wrote to the committee, saying he is out of the country. He suggested that he be represented in the committee by "county senior officers"."Mutua is already out of the country and will not have returned by Wednesday (yesterday). It is practically impossible for him to appear in person," the letter dated October 3 reads. "Under the circumstances and in order to comply with the senate decision, the governor will be represented by a team of relevant senior officers."County executives from Taita Taveta, who were already at Parliament Buildings to accompany Mruttu for the 11am date with the committee, said the governor had fallen sick on his way to Parliament.Committee chairman Anyang Nyong'o rescheduled the grilling to next week, saying the committee would only deal with governors and not county executives.The committee is expected to pick the questioning Mutua on where it left in July.Mutua and his team will shed light on how the county government procured 16 vehicles at Sh32,855,000 for its executive officers. Auditor General Edward Ouko in his report noted that after he examined the ownership documents, they revealed the vehicles were second-hand.The report indicates the tender and evaluations documents were not availed to confirm how the procurement was done."We were therefore not able to confirm whether the county government received value for money on these procurements. Further, these vehicles were registered with private number plates instead of the green plates as required by law," the report says."The county should provide documents on the procurement of the motor vehicles and valuation reports to determine the true worth and authority to register them with private number plates, instead of the usual (green)." It also indicates that the county government engaged 156 staff without having done a human resource audit to determine the gaps and adequacy or otherwise in terms of numbers and competencies of the existing staff at the time of transition. "No evidence was provided to show the recruitment process used and also the staff portfolio and structures at the time of their engagement. Further, the County Public Service Board was not in existence then," it says.The report says the salaries paid were not within the approved salaries scales. It proposes that the county nullifies the engagements and surcharge the officers responsible for the recruitment.