At the peak of his tyrannical rule (let s say, the mid-80s or thereabouts) it was generally considered prudent to refer to now-retired president Daniel Moi as our God-fearing president .This God-fearing aspect of Mr Moi did not prevent him from imprisoning without trial, several of his more formidable opponents, as well as dozens of other innocent people. Nonetheless the Almighty must have a soft spot for Moi. Or, alternatively, as they say in some parts of West Africa, the man has powerful ancestral spirits.Consider his contemporary, Mobutu Sese Seko of Zaire (now DR Congo) perhaps the most iconic of Africa s Big Men from that time, when dictators bestrode the continent. This legendary billionaire-tyrant's reign ended when he flew into exile from a private airport as rebels closed in on him. His ignominious exit was made even more humiliating when his own elite presidential guard fired their AK-47s at his departing jet, as they suddenly realised that they had been left behind to face the wrath of the long-oppressed Zairean people. Moi on the other hand, has by now had about 13 years of luxurious and dignified retirement, right here in Kenya. And if we are to judge by some of the property deals he has been mentioned in recently, the old man is still rolling in his dubiously-acquired billions. Well, President Uhuru Kenyatta seems at present anyway to be every bit as lucky as his mentor, Daniel Moi.Christmas has come early for Uhuru as the opposition coalition that hopes to unseat him has given him the kind of gift which I am sure Moi still fondly remembers from his two victories in the 1990s: a deeply divided opposition.Now, there is a need for a little clarification here. A few of Uhuru s partisans men I have known for many years have repeatedly reminded me over the past few months that Kenyan presidents never lose in their bid for reelection. I have invariably conceded this point told them I agree that it is more than likely Uhuru will win a second term and then pointed out to an interesting statistic: no Kenyan president seeking reelection has ever got anywhere close to 50% of the total votes cast. They may have always won but only because they faced a fragmented opposition. Consider President Moi in 1992 (he got 36% of total votes cast in that year's presidential election); Moi again in 1997 (40%); and then retired President Mwai Kibaki in 2007 (46%). And these are results which almost certainly benefitted from an artificially-boosted tally, generated by the presidents men. In a totally free and fair election, we may well have seen a different result. In my view this can be explained as part of the rejectionist voting pattern that marks every Kenyan general election. If about 70% of those currently serving as MPs are certain to lose their seats next year due to our established anti-incumbency vote trends, why should we imagine that the president will not face this same problem? Just as most Kenyans feel badly let down by their MPs and will likely feel even more let down by governors this time around why would we imagine that they give the president high marks for the execution of his duties? Is it not much more likely that the opposition will find it very easy to sell a narrative of the president and his tribesmen having eaten alone ? A narrative which logically makes it imperative that the president should be voted out by the majority, who feel convinced they have been "denied their share"?So it could be argued that the very heart of any Kenyan presidential reelection strategy, is to ensure that the opposition is not united, and fields at least two prominent candidates, of whom one can be relied on to take away some of the votes which might have helped the runner up defeat His Excellency.Now at the moment, this seems to be happening without any effort by the president to bring about this much-desired fragmentation of the opposition.Provided Uhuru does not make any huge blunder between now and the 2013 election, his chances look pretty good.