Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi has termed himself the only presidential candidate who can get the malfunctioning Jubilee administration out of power in 2017.Mudavadi asked the Luhya community to join him and other Kenyans in defeating the "abusive, weak and unconcerned" Jubilee regime. Anyone supporting Jubilee in this region is lost. The regime has the audacity to tell us we can only smell the meat even if we cook it, he said.[VIDEO] Get your house in order, let Jubilee feast on 'meat', Uhuru tells RailaRead: Mudavadi, Khalwale lash out at Uhuru over kula nyama remarkMudavadi appealed to Cord co-principals Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetang'ula to support his bid for president to give the opposition an upper hand. Do you want Jubilee sent packing by 8am on August 8, 2017? We have one weapon against this frightful regime that weapon is Musalia Mudavadi," he said. "We have no time to argue. I am willing, ready and rearing to go."The Amani leader said the law against hopping from party to party will not help but work against them.He said many who had hopped, skipped and jumped into Jubilee were turning back in droves. They were lied to that a new party was being formed. They even believed they would be made official owners of the party," he said."What is the truth? The officials of JAP were recycled to JP. They now know that if Kanu has owners, Jubilee is a landlord who locks you out for higher rent."He addressed mourners during the burial of Vihiga Senator George Khaniri's niece in Hamisi constituency on Saturday.Read: Kanu to back Mudavadi's bid for President[VIDEO] I won t work with Uhuru - MudavadiBut Mudavadi asked the people of Vihiga county to let him hunt for votes away from home because Luhyas alone cannot make him president. I have got to add to our numbers. I will be away most of the time but remember where we are going, he said.Mudavadi said he had no preferred candidate for Amani Natioal Coalition's elective positions. He asked members not to use his name to stop others from joining the party and said they were free to choose candidates during nominations.