The name Simon Sang Kiprono is synonymous with workers rights. A perfectionist by nature, Sang, the secretary general of the Dockworkers Union, has been defending people s rights since he was a young boy. My passion for workers rights is a calling, he declares. God has planted the rights of workers to be my lifetime occupation, says Sang, who became born-again christian in 1991.He joined the Dockworkers Union in 2006, after he resigned from his job at the Kenya Ports Authority. He had worked there for 20 years. I had been representing workers at different levels until 2005, when I represented the management on some issues. Much as he was a representative of the management, Sang sided with the workers.Unhappy with his role, the management decided to transfer him. He was sent to Italy for some unnecessary training for five months.This, he came to learn later, was a way of removing him from KPA, because he was giving the senior management sleepless nights. It is while in Italy that I made up my mind that I will never be employed again. I decided I would ever only work for employees, says Sang.During his tenure he successfully fought against the privatisation of the Mombasa Port, which would have rendered not less than 3,000 workers jobless.During this time 3,225 employees who were casuals at KPA were made permanent and pensionable.As a manager at the container terminal, he was voted the top performer for three consecutive years from 2000 to 2003.In 2013 he contested the Kuresoi South parliamentary seat on Charity Ngilu s Narc, but lost. I am looking forward to joining national politics again in 2022, but this time I need to prepare. He will not contest any seat in 2017 but will campaign for candidates for the Governor positions in the Kilifi, Mombasa and Kwale counties. This will be in exchange for the rights of workers being upheld. This is something we will sell to whoever we shall support. According to him, workers representation in Kenya is adversarial as there is no agitation for rights through pure dialogue. We want to change the mindset of the government and the trade unionists. We want them to change their ways of fighting for the rights of workers by adopting a roundtable kind of arrangement. In five minutes 1958: Born in Bomet.1966: Started education at Kaporuso Primary School, where he sat his CPE in 1972.1974: Longisa Secondary School. He completed his O-level studies in 1977.1978: Thika Commercial College, Accounting Technician course, graduated in 1979.1983: Kenya Ports Authority, technician. He resigned in 2006.2006: Elected secretary general, Dockworkers Union.2013: Contested the Kuresoi South parliamentary seat but lost.Quotes2014: Trade unions cannot work together by taking each other to court. They can only work together by forming a federation so that officials of one labour centre come together with the national officials of another labour centre to form a federation. We will then have an umbrella where issues of a national nature that cut across can be negotiated at that national level. That has worked in other continents .2015: Every issue that you touch, you have to do it perfectly. It is the perfection aspect that will make a big difference. If you get any kind of job, whether it is cleaning a toilet, any clerical or managerial work, you have to do it with joy and perfection. 2016: I want to change the way business is done in my five-year term by embracing dialogue instead of the old way of resorting to strikes. For many years, this union has earned the infamous tag of being a militant organization. I want to change that by bringing closer relations between the government, employer, and union members. 2016: The Mombasa Port Community Charter is a scheme by the government to privatize the port. They cannot come up with a policy which does not have any value to the port and the community, what we want to change is the section on outsourcing services from the private sector. 