With everything we have read about ethnic job hiring and discrimination, not just in Moi but other universities, it is clear negative ethnicity is on the rise at an alarming rate. But more frightening about negative ethnicity is the phenomenon that Kenyans are no longer embarrassed or ashamed to identify with negative ethnicity. In fact, many Kenyans now wear it as badge honor and give it public support. This then is why MPs Sudi and Tiren and governors Jackson Mandago of Uasin Gishu and Alex Tolgos of Elgeyo Marakwet could unashamedly lead the public in demanding a professor Isaac Kosgey from their community to be appointed Vice Chancellor of Moi University which they also consider their community s university.From the incident at Moi University, it must be quite obvious also that, today, unlike yesterday, leaders are able to publicly support negative ethnicity because they enjoy impunity against prosecution for hate speech, the only crime that is identified with negative ethnicity.When Kenyans also publicly support and propagate negative ethnicity it is because they know they enjoy impunity against prosecution for ethnic crimes.Here we need to point out that, the expression of public support for negative ethnicity that we are currently witnessing stems from our failure to punish ethnic crimes that were committed during the ethnic post election violence of 2007 and 2008 and earlier ethnic clashes that Kanu government used to stem the tide of multiparty democracy.With total impunity and immunity against prosecution for ethnic crimes, the dangers of negative ethnicity are downplayed and the ideology of genocide encouraged to spread everywhere in the land. Indeed negative ethnicity is spreading like wild fire today because Kenyans no longer remember that they narrowly escaped genocide during the post election violence. Equally, Kenyans embrace negative ethnicity because they have forgotten not just their post election violence but also various ethnic civil wars in Africa, genocide in Rwanda, ongoing civil war in South Sudan and the Holocaust that was unleashed against Jews by its sister ideology of anti-Semitism during the Second World War. How then must we end negative ethnicity?First, we must realize that this is the worst possible time that Kenyans can start to play political games with the monster of negative ethnicity. Each time Kenyans play with negative ethnicity during election time, they pay dearly. Two, as the constitution of Rwanda has done, Kenyan constitution must clearly identify negative ethnicity as a national enemy and ban its propagation in politics, political parties, schools, universities, everywhere. Three, like European anti-Semitism that mothered the Holocaust and ideology of genocide that fueled ethnic Armageddon that became genocide in Rwanda, negative ethnicity in Kenya must be banned and punished each time anybody tries to perpetrate or even deny it. Four, parliament should enact a law that together with the constitution will criminalize all ethnic crimes and everything whose intention and consequence will be to promote and propagate ethnic hate and ethnic crimes of whatever description. In deed, no leader however high or low will be permitted to enjoy impunity for propagating or actualizing the ideology of negative ethnicity at any level of society. Five, the law criminalizing negative ethnicity should also give the National Cohesion and Integration Commission powers to arrest and prosecute people who commit hate speech and other ethnic crimes. As long as NCIC is a toothless bulldog, negative ethnicity will continue to blossom. As we seek to stem the rising tide of negative ethnicity, we must not forget that negative ethnicity has benefits that attract people to it. These benefits include jobs and elective offices that people acquire when people seeking work and power win interviews and elections purely on account of their ethnicity. As long as these benefits are available, negative ethnicity will continue to attract people and communities.To end negative ethnicity, as we are now witnessing in our universities and politics, like stolen money that thieves must surrender to end corruption, beneficiaries of negative ethnicity must never be allowed to keep its benefits. For people of some communities to enjoy benefits of negative ethnicity, it must favor them and deny others same benefits through ethnic discrimination. As we must end ethnic favoritism to deny negative ethnicity attraction of its beneficiaries, we must also end negative ethnicity by rescuing victims of its ethnic discrimination and marginalization from embracing counter negative ethnicity and its economic or political hate, discrimination and marginalization.