Arsenal Vs Norwich Today 7:30pmMy Prediction: The Gunners 3-0 NorwichEven though I will watch this because I m a Gunner, there s only one game that really matters this weekend and it s being played tomorrow at Old Trafford. But since Arsenal are still fighting for her traditional 4th place trophy; this game is some-what relevant. I m feeling ashamed that it s come to this; as in Arsenal fighting for 4th when we were every pundit s favourite to win the title just a couple of weeks ago. But as I said in Gunpoint yesterday; we re all insane Gunners! The fact is that small games really matter now because we will never survive social media if we re relegated to playing on Thursdays. The Gunners squad is getting fuller because players like Jack Wilshere and Santi Cazorla are coming back from injury. But I m not sure whether the three remaining games are enough for them to find any sort of rhythm. Manager Arsene Wenger should just bench Olivier Giroud and Arsenal will stand a chance. We have numerous players who can score goals but our main striker isn t one of them. Just for the record; every time I insult Giroud he performs. But I don t even want him in the starting line-up. Norwich are fighting relegation so just like Sunderland last weekend; it won t be easy. That in itself should tell our pretty little squad; that we need to step up our game and fight for the three points! Manchester United Vs Leicester Sunday 4:05pmMy Prediction: The Red Devils 1-2 The FoxesThis is the match of the weekend because the fairy tale will come to pass. Leicester just need to win here and they will make history! When Spurs drew against West Brom on Monday; it took the excitement of this game a notch higher. Spurs are seven points behind the Foxes with nine points to play for. It s no longer about Jamie Vardy being in the squad as we saw against Swansea on Sunday. Yes it would be nice to have him; but Leonardo Ulloa made it loud and clear that Leicester was not and has not been a one or even two man show this season. Yes Vardy and Riyad Mahrez have been the but the Argentine professional showed why he too should have his name in lights. The guys who also deserve to have their names in lights is the back line; starting with keeper Kasper Schmeichel. The keeper has been fantastic and the back line has kept seven clean sheets in their last ten matches. I so admire this Leicester side led by manager Claudio Ranieri and really hope they can keep that annoying Anthony Martial and his school pal Marcus Rashford at bay. The rest of the Man United squad are just there to escort them so I wouldn t worry too much about them.Chelsea Vs Tottenham Monday 10pmMy Prediction: The Blues 1-1 SpursActually even if Leicester drop points at Old Trafford; they ll have one more chance to win the league this weekend if Chelsea do them a favour on Monday. This London derby will be fire. The Blues have nothing but pride to fight for and saying we stopped another London side from winning the league will surely tickle them. Spurs have their young wonder kid Dele Alli on suspension; and I could tell against West Brom that they are the team that isn t handling the pressure. The Blues aren t in the right form to win this but they can surely hold them to a draw.