Kenyans will soon know what led to mismanagement of athletes and details of the sordid saga of the Rio Olympic Games.A parliamentary Labour committee is completing its inquiry and writing its report.The committee chaired by Matungulu MP David Were probed the debacle involving the Sports ministry and the National Olympics Committee of Kenya for two weeks while Parliament was on recess. It began preparing the report last week.It will recommend action against officials and staff involved in mishandling athletes and other wrongdoing. We are working on that report. We are meeting again today an, thereafter will know when the report will be tabled, Kirinyaga woman representative Winnie Njuguna told the Star.National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi had asked Were to ensure the report is tabled for debate when sittings resume.There were widespread claims of corruption in accrediting the huge delegation to Rio, tickets for many joyriders financed by taxpayers, booking of unused luxurysaccommodation, theft of uniforms. After the games, athletes were obliged to stay in dilapidated quarters while officials flew home in luxury but made athletes cool their heels until cheap tickets were arranged for the heroes.Sports CS Hassan Wario and Nock president Kipchoge Keino s teams gave conflicting responses during separate questioning sessions. At one point, President Uhuru Kenyatta s name was dragged into the fiasco.Nock deputy treasurer and Rio Olympics Chief of the Mission Stephen Soi claimed the ministry spent Sh2.2 million to book two luxury rooms for Uhuru on a cruise ship, but they were not occupied, leading to loss of taxpayers money.But Wario, accompanied by PS Richard Ekai and other officials, dismissed the allegation, saying Nock booked the rooms for Keino.In August, Keino said he wanted the law to take its course on the scandal.He said the government should get to the bottom of it by applying the law.Keino said investigations should have been carried out before officials of the committee were arrested. The officials should not have been arrested and detained over allegations. Investigations should be done without any rush, he said.Keino said Kenya risks being banned by International Olympic Committee over the interference. He said dialogue is the best way to solving some disputes not simply disbanding the committee. This [premaure action] will attract IOC action and the young generation will be affected, he said.