It all started with Moses and his father-in-law Jethro, the priest of Midian. Jethro had heard of everything that God had done for Moses and for his people Israel, and how the Lord had brought Israel out of Egypt. Jethro was utterly amazed. He wondered how his son-in-law was coping with the enormous responsibilities now bestowed on him as a leader, dealing with people who were anxious about their new found freedom and the political set up Moses was leading them into.It had not been an easy departure from Egypt; it was a tough war of liberation by the people Moses led, the Hebrews, who believed they succeeded against the mighty power of Pharaoh thanks to the superior power of God. It was faith and commitment to the cause they were fighting for, and the focussed leadership of Moses, that made them succeed. liberation warriorBut the struggle for liberation, from the point of view of Jethro, was very different from settling down to live as a sovereign people in a new political environment under the leadership of a liberation warrior like Moses. When Jethro finally caught up with Moses at his seat of power, he was equally amazed how utterly clueless Moses was regarding how to administer people and run state affairs on a daily basis. The Bible, Exodus chapter 18, verses 13 to 26 puts it very graphically: The next day Moses took his seat to serve as judge of the people, and they stood around him from morning till evening. When his father-in-law saw all that Moses was doing for the people, he said, what is this you are doing for the people? Why do you alone sit as judge, while all these people stand around you from morning till evening? Moses answered him, Because the people come to me to seek God s will. Whenever they have a dispute, it is brought to me, and I decide between the parties and inform them of God s decrees and laws. Moses father-in-law replied, What you are doing is not good. You and these people who come to you will only wear yourselves out. The work is too heavy for you; you cannot handle it alone. Listen now to me and I will give you some advice, and may God be with you. You must be the people s representative before God and bring their disputes to him. Teach them the decrees and the laws, and show them the way to live and the duties they are to perform. But select capable men from all the people--men who fear God, trustworthy men who hate dishonest gain--and appoint them as officials over thousands, hundreds, fifties and tens. Have them serve as judges for the people at all times, but have them bring every difficult case to you; the simple cases they can decide themselves. That will make your load lighter, because they will share it with you. If you do this and God so commands, you will be able to stand the strain, and all these people will go home satisfied. Moses listened to his father-in-law and did everything he said. He chose capable men from all Israel and made them leaders of the people, officials over thousands, hundreds, fifties and tens. They served as judges of the people at all times. The difficult cases they brought to Moses, but the simple ones they decided themselves. authoritarian tendenciesThere is no doubt that our new constitution which created two levels of government, separate but inter-dependent, aimed at devolving and dispersing political power so as to do away with the authoritarian tendencies in the unitary state, and empower leaders below with decision- making and political initiative. The centralisation of power is not only over-burdening the central authority, but it can also lead to being worn out and hence trigger inefficiency as Jethro observed. Good governance is enhanced by the delegation of authority and the devolution of political power. Good leadership is exercised through delegated authority to competent subordinates who know what they are doing. Political cronyism is the antithesis of good leadership.Although the County Government Act envisages three steps of devolved government below the county level--sub-county, ward and village--very few counties have bothered to implement the devolved structure of government fully. The Village Council consisting of 5 people does not exist in the majority of counties. Likewise, ward and sub-county administrators, where they exist, are generally treated as minions of the county chief executive--the Governor--exercising very little power, possessing no authority to incur expenditure and deciding almost nothing on matters of the county s public administration. control freaks Where Governors have proved to be control freaks making all decisions, dispensing with all tenders, and appointing all personal directly or by proxy, devolution is not faring on very well. It is in the control freaks counties where corruption has run amok, tenders are auctioned to contractors who never complete their jobs, shoddy projects are a daily occurrence in the so-called development record of the county and county residents feel generally alienated from the county leaders. It is in the control freaks counties where cronies and relatives occupy major positions in the county government, people always jam the corridors of county government looking for personal favors and hence county officials hardly have time to think and execute innovative programs for development. Moses listened to his father-in-law and implemented the advice he had been given. He devolved power and delegated responsibilities to capable men and women who detested dishonest gains . In other words they detested corruption and steered clear of it. If there is any single factor that is ruining devolution today, as it is ruining the atonal government, it is corruption: the love for dishonest gain. There are blatant cases where some governors appoint persons to key positions in county government, such as procurement, on condition that such persons so appointed shall be the conveyor belts for channeling illicit money to the governor s office. Inevitably such love for dishonest gain adversely affects service delivery and development. No wonder in such counties development expenditure is minimal--if not totally absent-- and recurrent expenditure can at times take more than 100% of the county s annual budget. That means, of course, that no money is spent on development but raided to support profligate spending with unaccounted for bills which are rolled over to the subsequent financial year.indulging in micromanagingWhen people are given the power to decide on their own destiny they are unlikely to misuse the resources that facilitate their well being. But if they are given resources and subjected to use the resources in a patronizing way, they are very likely to allow irresponsible behavior to adversely affect resource use. Jethro knew this, and he advised Moses correctly to divide his administration in levels of thousands, hundreds, fifties and tens, delegating responsibility to every devolved level of government so that leaders at those levels could fully take charge of issues at their level, only reporting complicated cases to him. This is one lesson a good number of our governors have not learnt, notwithstanding the clear structure of devolution provided in law.There is an assumption that by governors indulging in micromanaging administration at the lower levels of county government their authority is felt more effectively at the grassroots, hence ensuring more political legitimacy for the governor. While this may well be the case in certain instances, cumulatively such style of administration becomes difficult to sustain given the fact that its impact, by its very nature, will discriminate against certain areas. It also deprives lower level officials of the challenge to take initiative since any such initiative may be regarded as over shadowing a superior authority. Jethro was not wrong when he commented to Moses: teach them the decrees and laws, and show them the way to live and the duties they are to perform. But select capable men from all the people (not just from your family, clan, tribe or friends)--men who fear God, trustworthy men who hate dishonest gain. Is someone listening from State House or from some Governor s mansion somewhere?