A senior City Hall official was spotted last week at a popular joint at Kenyatta Market where he was meeting garbage collectors. It is rumoured the official, who holds a senior position, may have conspired with garbage collectors to sabotage Governor Evans Kidero s (pictured) administration. The uncollected aromatic mountains of garbage downtown do not enhance the administration s public image. Those supposed to be in the know admit they do not know what transpired at the get-together. They are keenly watching and waiting to see what will happen.****DID some of our honourable MPs also loot the NYS? Corridors has been told accusations and counter-accusations are flying among MPs involving the theft of more than Sh1 billion. We hear the charges stem from legislators political differences ahead of the 2017 polls. Our mole hears that an MP from Western accuses an outspoken colleague from the region of pocketing Sh200 million for his consultancy services to the NYS. The MP questions how his colleague who has been approached, without success, to join the anticipated Third Force political outfit pocketed the vast sum, instead of the modest Sh50 million for his services. He was overheard saying his colleague must must have been well connected and conspired with a former Devolution official to share in the plunder of public coffers.****JUST what is going on at one of the country s leading sports management institutions? Corridors has been informed a cartel of employees has taken over the Human Resource office and is dictating operations at the institution. Instead of prioritising payment of staff salaries, the cartel insists on raking in millions of shillings in allowances. Out-of-town assignments are conjured up and fabricated by the group specifically for getting allowances. All this is being done without the knowledge of the CEO.****DESPITE the ongoing controversy about including joyriders and mistresses on the list of people who went to Olympic Games in Rio, another scandal is in the offing for the Paralympic Games in the same city. Our mole tells Corridors that 68 officials are expected to accompany fewer than 30 disabled athletes to the games. One of those on the official list is a girl whom organisers have been ordered to include on the Brazilian junket because she is the niece of a Cabinet Secretary. Other joyriders and freeloaders include secretaries, junior ministry officials and drivers.****A Nairobi MCA aspiring to be the woman representative has lashed out at some of her colleagues for being jealous of her ambitions. She was heard telling a colleague that fellow MCAs are angry since she launched her bid and have peddled all manner of allegations and smears. They accuse her of sleeping around with influential men to get campaign cash. The aspirant denies all this. However, the woman rep-to-be is said to believe the adage that all publicity is essentially good publicity and she says she won t be derailed by dirty campaigning. They can say I went to Thika during the County Assembly Games and sat on the grass and I was desperate. I am not bothered, she says.****A prominent institution s commissioner has been busy shuttling from one MP to another to put the brakes on his expected removal from office. The commissioner, who has sworn to do whatever it takes to remain in office, is alleged to have earmarked Sh30 million to grease legislators palms, soften their hearts and ease their consciences to save himself.