Carmen is currently an analyst at Bankable Frontier Associates. She is an experienced researcher and has worked as an international development consultant for government parastatals and international organisations. She has extensive practical experience in communications, program and project planning and implementation, monitoring and evaluation, and knowledge management.5PM-6AM: I wake up. For breakfast, I have eggs with yoghurt and fruit while getting ready for the day. I also take time to write a task list and a plan of attack. I usually get some work done before I leave the house. Then I pack a bag with snacks, lunch and anything else I need for the day and head to the office.9.00AM: I arrive at the office and start the day with a cup of tea or a coffee. I check my emails to see if there are any updates regarding projects and respond to urgent mail that need a quick response. I check the calendar to see if I have meetings or conference calls as well.From then my time is divided between developing content, researching, writing, editing and meetings until lunch time. 1.00PM: Lunch is usually varied but consists of vegetables, a protein and a starch. For example, yesterday I had stir-fry beef with cabbage and vegetable rice. Lunch is also the time I check in with my colleagues and catch up with them.2.00PM After lunch I usually continue with the tasks I have not completed. Day to day activities vary depending on the project I am working on. At the end of the day I evaluate my progress against my to-do list and make a note of the things I need to complete the next day.6.00PM-9.00PM: I usually get home around this time depending on how late my conference calls are, traffic and whether I have errands to run in town or meetings. Dinner consists of a protein and vegetables. I usually watch a little TV and catch up on my reading. I go to bed between 10 pm and midnightWEEKENDS: Are spent doing errands, cleaning, laundry, baking and cooking and then going out with family and friends. I also love DIY projects so I try to do something different every weekend.