The digitisation of government payments through the www.ecitizen.go.ke portal, which started in April 2014, is bearing fruit at the National Transport and Safety Authority. The system established a single sign-in process that registers users of the portal and authenticates them using the national ID database.The NTSA was one of the agencies identified for the piloting of the GDP programme. The pilot started with three services: Application and payment for provisional driving licence, test booking and issuance of driving licence. Such has been the high level of adoption that currently, 99.9 per cent of all NTSA services are online.The e-Citizen portal enables citizens to make payments in whichever electronic mode they prefer mobile money, internet banking, debit and credit cards.Before digitisation, most payments to the government were in the form of cash at designated points and times. This gave room for huge revenue leakages through fake receipts and other forms of fraud.Taking out the human inferface in the payment system has removed layers of bureaucracy, besides eliminating corruption. Poor ICT systems with no linkage between payment and service delivery were another major challenge. The system is a timesaver initially, candidates for driving licences would queue at the Kenya Revenue Authority or NTSA offices to pay for a provisional driving licence, make a test booking or pay for an interim licence. The applicant would then have to wait for a minimum of six months for the driving licence to be posted to them.Currently, they pay for and obtain the provisional licence online through the e-Citizen portal, book the test online at their convenience and on passing the test, leave the test centre with a driving licence.Renewing driving licences previously meant queuing at the National Bank of Kenya or the Post Office. Today, it takes a citizen less than five minutes to renew a driver s licence.The dispatch of new driving licences was bedevilled by numerous challenges such as lost documents or inability to reach the owners due to limited postal infrastructure. There has been a major increase in the accuracy of data held by the NTSA, a marked reduction in administrative as well as collection costs, among other benefits.The uptake of the service has been quite encouraging and consistent. Currently, the number of citizens registered with NTSA is 2,489,941, with an average of 9,600 transactions per day. This translates into material cost-cutting on accountable documents (renewal slips, PDL, test booking); elimination of parallel accountable documents and fraud; reduction in time taken to process applications as the service is available 24/7, as well as helping in revenue tracking from payment to settlement of account. The Authority has witnessed a steady progress in cash flow.The rollout has not been devoid of challenges. The NTSA lacks funds to carry out change management, sensitisation and capacity building to publicise the e-Citizen service delivery channel, its mechanics and advantages. The other challenge has been the lack of adequate enforcement gadgets to validate documentation and weed out fake documents.The implementation of digital payments has helped realise the government s goal of attaining a cashless economy with the aim of reducing costs; improving service delivery to citizens; increasing efficiency in revenue collection; improving the accounting and audit procedures to ensure a proper tracking of the cash flow, hence combating corruption.