Raila Odinga has said campaign talk by Cord co-principals Moses Wetang'ula and Kalonzo Musyoka was part of their plans to strengthen their parties.The opposition leader defended Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya) and Kalonzo (Wiper) on Wednesday, following their declarations of being the best presidential candidates.The two have also asked Raila to sacrifice his bid for their sake since he has vied for the top seat and lost three times.The Cord leader also noted that Ford Kenya, Wiper and ODM agreed to consolidate their strongholds ahead of the August 8, 2017 general election. We agreed sometime back that each Cord party should market itself. That is what they are doing. We are still united and will come back at the right time to pick a presidential candidate," said Raila. We are all in the chase for the top seat, and each party has a game plan to strengthen itself before we pick a presidential candidate."There has been speculation about the unity of Cord parties but Raila said the parties will come together before the end of the year to establish the mode for picking a presidential candidate. We all have a common agenda - to win the next election - so that the country can be run effectively and competently. We all want to stop corruption and promote unity in Cord, he noted.Read: Cord faces split over 2017 ticket: Raila, Kalonzo, Wetangula fighting for coalition ticketKalonzo said he would make the best Cord flag bearer at Tononoka grounds in Mombasa at the weekend. Wetang'ula, who is Bungoma Senator, has continued asking Raila to endorse him.Lugari MP Ayub Savula asked the three on Tuesday to take on a clear strategy including new faces to kick Jubilee Party out of power in the next election. We have less than one year to the elections. The opposition needs to consolidate and agree on an appropriate formula to pick a presidential candidate, he said.More on this: Settle on formula for picking flag bearer, remove old faces, Savula tells CordODM national chairman John Mbadi said the coalition will agree on the seats to field for candidates ahead of the poll."Raila has sacrificed a lot for this great nation but we will all agree on the outcome of the nomination process," he said. We lost many seats in Parliament because we were competing against ourselves; Wiper, ODM and Ford Kenya. But this time we are prepared to win as many seats as possible," he said.The leaders spoke after receiving Jubilee leaders who defected to the party at ODM's Orange House headquarters in Nairobi.Politicians led by Ibrahim Woche said the Jubilee government has neglected their region. Lapsset projects which were meant for the region are now being directed to Mount Kenya yet we are suffering, he said.Read: I will support Raila again, says KalonzoAlso read: Ditch cord for jubilee, Raila will never back you, Wetangula told