Former national team seamer-turned-spinner Rajesh Bhudia punched holes in Swamibapa s bid to win the Nairobi Provincial Cricket Association (NPCA) title when he led Kanbis to an emphatic 40-runs win with a six-wicket haul at Eastleigh High School.Kanbis skipper claimed 6 for 50 from 10 overs to help his side bowl out Swamibapa for 208 in their pursuit of 248. The loss was second in a row for Swamibapa who had seen their winning streak end at the hands of Stray Lions two weeks ago.With the loss, Stray Lions chances of winning the league were boosted further after beating hosts Nairobi Gymkhana by eight wickets. Stray Lion are now top of the table with 174 points with four matches to play. With the win, Kanbis cut Swamibapa s second place spot by only two points as they are placed third with 155 points.Sitting comfortable at 103 for 1 after 21 overs, Swamibapa were in the driving seat and destined for their ninth win until Rajesh got the breakthrough with his eighth bowl of the inning. He had Maurice Ouma (30) after playing a short that left many wondering the need for such a move. They were three wickets down when Narendra Patel had top scorer Naman Patel caught behind on 52. Emmanuel Bundi and Rakesh Kehar tried to lift up the score with fourth wicket stand of 69 until when Rajesh attacked again by having Kehar caught on 50.After the dismissal of Kehar, Swamibapa never recovered as they kept on losing wickets. They were heavily hit in the 34th over where they lost three wickets of Bundi, Francis Otieno and James Otieno in a span of four balls to Bhudia with the board at 184. Rajesh got his last when had Saumil Patel bowled as he tried to step out on nine.Lameck Onyango s resistance lasted for only a while before he was caught by Rajesh amid Jubilation by Kanbis, who lost heavily to Swamibapa in the first round.At Gymkhana, former national team skipper Maurice Odumbe picked up three wickets to lead his side Stray Lions to a comfortable win over the hosts.Odumbe and Wilkin Mota s three saw the league leaders bowl out hosts for 108 in 33.4 overs. League s top wicket taker Hiren Varaiya added more wickets on his tally with two wickets.The inning saw all the five players sent back to the pavilion on ducks. In reply, a second wicket stand of 55 between Tanmay Mishra (57) and Manoj Sai (13) put their side in the driving seat of the match. Elsewhere, Ruaraka and Sikh Union were also victorious with wins over Cutchi Leva and Kongonis respectively.