From the early 1990s until fairly recently, there was a conviction here in Kenya that our many problems could be blamed on the old constitution .Whether what was under consideration was the blatant misuse of presidential power; police brutality; runaway corruption; detention without trial; or manifest weaknesses in our education system. In all of these it was often argued we had a constitution that allowed all power to coalesce around the President and the ruling clique.And from this came the conclusion if we only had a constitution that allowed for the existence of independent institutions, then all our problems would be solved.Well, we did get a new constitution in 2010. And though it was promulgated under President Mwai Kibaki, it is after the March 4, 2013, general election, and under Uhuru Kenyatta, that we have had the opportunity to experience the promised changes.Having now lived for just over three years with the new constitution, and especially with devolved government, what would you say was the most remarkable thing?Well, personally I would argue that it took devolution to make most Kenyans realise the extent to which the semi-arid northern part of the country had been marginalised by previous governments. Over the past few years, we have heard of this northern county getting its first street lights; and of that other northern county getting its first tarmac road; then of yet another county getting its first modern operating theatre.In all these cases, what was at last - being provided was something that the southern half of the country had taken for granted from way back in the 60s. For example, while those of us living in this more fortunate southern half complained bitterly about the potholes on our roads, there were children growing up in the north who had never once seen a tarmac road, potholed or otherwise.But an even more significant development follows from this.Not only is the marginalisation of the northern counties at an end thanks to devolution but we will in the next decade or two see a huge demographic shift in favour of the north. This is linked to a pattern that has been observed all over the world: When health facilities are lacking, and infant mortality is high, women tend to have as many children as they can manage, as there is no telling how many of these kids will die before the age of five. But when modern health facilities begin to be available as is now happening in northern Kenya the fertility rate does not drop immediately. It only very gradually begins to drop, as people see with their own eyes that, indeed, most of their children survive.Women in northern Kenya at present give birth to roughly twice as many children as do women in the rest of the country. In Turkana, Pokot, Samburu, Mandera, Wajir, Marsabit, etc, women have a fertility rate of roughly 7.0. This contrasts with Central Kenya including Nairobi where the fertility rate is roughly 2.7.If the experience of other countries is anything to go by, the average family in most of southern Kenya will over the next decade or so have only two kids each. But over that decade, the fertility rate for women in northern Kenya may actually rise to 8.0 as more and more children survive into adulthood.So what does it mean this prospect of women in the previously marginalised northern Kenya having so many more children than those in the rest of the country? Well, it has been perceptively pointed out by a number of media pundits that our presidential elections are essentially a tribal census.And it is now clear after just another two general elections, northern Kenya and in particular the ethnic Somali community will emerge as a big tribe . Big enough to demand a place at the big table, and to negotiate for ever greater benefits for that region.Whatever may be the failures of devolution or the new constitution, this one thing is true: The days when leaders in Nairobi did not have to worry about the needs and priorities of the nomadic communities of northern Kenya are over.