However you view it from the atheist's perspective or the religionists if our approach to each other is mired in mistrust, hatred and disrespect, then regardless of belief nor non-belief, we are hurtling nowhere together, but down.First, we must understand who we want to become through our antipathy to other viewpoints, especially if we don t understand exactly what we oppose.Life, as I understand it so far, is about cultivating progressive values love, tolerance, acceptance, sacrifice, truth, compassion and humility. Where we acquire them, from religion or not, is immaterial.Big read: Atheists promote Godless parentingI am religious I believe in a Supreme Creator because I don t trust my intellect to explain the life we are here to decipher.Some choose to live without that purpose, and instead follow the natural cause of it, which is okay. It is everyone s birthright to be masters of our choices. We go wrong, not when we share our views but when we impose them on others.No one has a monopoly on the truth. All we can do is live by example, by the values that make us human, whether attributed to a Divine Creator or not. In the end, it is our deeds that will determine what becomes of us in life and beyond.As for religious or Godless parenting , it s about the values we instill in children.If we teach them to reject God and hate believers, or teach them to believe in God and hate non-believers, we poison young minds, the worst of all possible deeds.We nurture children for their good and the betterment of others. If telling them belief or non-belief will make them better human beings and the world a better place, either way is acceptable. Just do not teach them to become indifferent or hostile to each other.Kenyans have a peculiar animosity toward atheists, even branding them satanic, yet the failures of believers and men of the cloth have fuelled atheists rejection of religion.Both sides are wrong. Each judges the other by what they do wrong , not right.I am a Sikh. Sikhi is a monotheistic religion teaching the oneness of all under One Creator God. My religion is a guide to my soul, a path laid down by others who have travelled the same journey and arrived where I also want to be in an eternity of peace and rest. I strive for that state of mind while I live.Whether one is Sikh, Hindu, Christian, Buddhist, Jain, Jew, Muslim, Rastafarian or atheist Sikhi regards all as equals, so long as we commit to the values of a life separating us from animals.That s the message of other religions and non-believers.What we need is more honest dialogue and less judgement out of ignorance. Miss-educating ourselves and our children because we think we are right and others are wrong is the reason hatred will persist and be passed on to our children. Let us outgrow our unfounded prejudices for the sake of generations that need our wisdom to enlighten their living.The writer is Visual Editor-in-Chiefat The Star .