Raila Odinga got an uppercut jab the other day when an Ipsos Poll suggested that he is too old to do politics. It is true that he has been here for a while and has been clamouring for change since before many Kenyans were born. Sometimes it is hard for the young people in this nation to connect with the issues behind his clamour for power. This is because the average Kenyan is a young person (60% aged 24 and below) and as such their collective national memory is very recent. It is therefore understood if this Kenyan will struggle to understand the issues that began before Raila Odinga was their age. Perhaps it was this mind that informed the respondents of the Poll. My deliberated opinion is that regardless of his age, he should vie next year and if he doesn t win, let him vie in 2022 and even in 2027 when he will be the same age as his father Oginga Odinga made a stab at the presidency aged 82 in 1992. What I am condemning is ageism which is no better than tribalism, racism, nepotism, sexism and all the isms and cisms that trouble our society today. The two RailasI first met Raila in person late last year and spent some profitable time with him. I took that rare chance to try to better understand his political mind. It is not easy to get his attention because of his awfully busy schedule and also because his coterie of feisty hangers-on will elbow out anyone who so much as tries to get close to him. If you don t like him, it is probably because you ve not had a face-to-face talk with him. When you talk to him, he comes to you as someone quite well-meaning and genuinely concerned for the future of this country. However, something happens when he stands in front of a microphone and a hundred thousand eyes are looking at him. His hard hitting language may serve to excite his base but it also serves to (further) drive away the rest. The vitriol that leaves his mouth to his opponents in my opinion doesn t really help. If it did not work all those years, it won t work now and it probably won t work ever. It may be time to change the tone of his speeches otherwise he is only flogging a long dead horse. When he says something, people also listen between the lines to what he is not saying and that is open to all manner of interpretation. I truly wish the person you spoke to face to face is the same person that you see on the television screens and I know I am not the first person to point this out. It is no doubt that Raila is a great Kenyan leader. I think he is a most misunderstood politician in Kenya. The long roadOne should understand the path that Raila has trod to get to where he is. From the time he was barely in his mid-twenties, he had to suffer the humiliation of seeing his father arrested and dragged through detention (without trial) following the Kisumu fracas at the opening of the Russian-built hospital in October 1969. His father s party the KPU was banned and all the MPs including his father lost their seats and were not allowed to vie in the elections only a month away. In the years that followed, Raila had to painfully watch his father lose nearly all his businesses to auctioneers when banks suddenly recalled the loans. A bus company founded by his father folded and had to be auctioned from what can only be politically inspired events. Reading Raila s latest biography, one cringes at the kind of things he and his father had to endure. In 1966 his father resigned from the Vice Presidency after being seriously humiliated at the Limuru Conference when his party position was split into eight regional vice-presidencies (thereby frustrating his position in the succession race). Naturally, this was a very apprehensive period for young Raila and probably turned him into a radical. 1982 came and with it the attempted coup. Raila then spent most of the eighties behind bars the total of which is about a tenth of his life today. It is not clear if what happened to his father or to him is what drives him today but one has the strong impression that it does. Perhaps this perception is the reason many people simply don t trust him and reflected that in the Ipsos poll. While I have serious reservations at the way the poll was conducted, I would not dismiss it entirely. Raila s friends went on the offensive and castigated the poll some even calling for a law to regulate polls. It is foolhardy to trash the poll altogether because in so doing, they are assuring their king that he is not naked. Let me humbly offer some clothes for the king. Freudian complexesBorn about a hundred days before my father, I ve learnt to respect Raila in the way I do my own father. Whether that will earn him my vote is something else. Raila s political tangent in many ways is a refraction of that of his father and he seems to spend every waking moment trying to go where his father never went. This Freudian (probably Oedipal) complex is not unique to him but is actually in most of us - only that it finds expression in different ways. For him it is high-octane politics using the any-means-necessary approach unlike his father who was more gentlemanly. But there is this invisible barrier that is preventing him from getting there. My opinion is that his ardent drive for the top seat is probably what is preventing him from getting there. Famous artist Andy Warhol said, As soon as you stop wanting something, you get it. Maybe this is the attitude he should adopt. The person you want too much will almost certainly never ingia box (think about it!). In fact Gideon Moi s lackadaisical approach to politics may sooner land him in State House that Raila. Uhuru Kenyatta had a similar attitude. He never really wanted his father s former job in the first place - even willing to give it to someone else. But then he got in and now has a better-than-fair chance of retaining it. Perhaps Raila should go back and enquire exactly why he wants this job. If he really wants it, then he should unwant it so as to get it. It works!Bouncing chequesFrom their historical encounters, the Luo feel that the Kikuyu cannot be trusted. Several times now the Luo have come back with bouncing cheques after doing business with the Kikuyu. They have now pointed to the Kalenjins that the same is coming to them. It remains to be seen whether indeed the Kalenjin will also get a bouncing cheque but as I have stated before, Kenyan s don t really vote tribe they vote for interests. They coalesce their interests around an individual they feel safe with. Raila must then reposition himself (urgently) as that kind of a leader. He must become the leader that can shoulder the interests of a wider section of Kenyans. Extensive Kikuyu interests that span the nation and region, is the reason they vote the way they do. For the moment, they feel safe with Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto is working hard to make them feel safe with him. What is it then that Raila can do to assure them that he poses no tangible threat to their interests? There s much he can do, but the bottom-line is that unless people feel safe with his presidency, he is not going far. The Year of JubileeThis year 2016 is exactly 50 years since Jomo Kenyatta humiliated Oginga Odinga at the Limuru Conference causing him to quit Government. This was despite the hard work Oginga Odinga had done to release Jomo Kenyatta from detention just five years earlier. This deep act of thanklessness is the genesis of the bad blood between the Luo and the Kikuyu and for years their interests have been at odds. This being the year of Jubilee (the year not the party), it is the perfect time for the Luo and the Kikuyu to let things go and open a new leaf of cooperation. In the year of Jubilee, all debts were settled, all slaves got their freedom and mortgaged land was returned to the rightful owners. It was a year of reconciliation. I am not sure Jubilee Party had this meaning in mind when they adopted the name. By using it, the conciliatory symbolism is lost since parties are partisan objects that do more to alienate people than bring them together. Their focus is more on winning the election rather than in bringing the nation together or righting the wrongs. The question remains did anyone take anything from anyone 50 years ago? Is there something the Kenyattas owe the Odingas or the Kikuyus the Luos? Jomo Kenyatta and Oginga Odinga are long dead but the legacy of their divergent paths still haunt this nation half a century later. If there is any debt - real or imagined, this year is the correct time to settle it. The same goes for any other community or person. Going forward, if Raila wants to lead this nation, he must adopt a together approach as opposed to them vs. us as should Uhuru. Both sides must realize the true meaning of Jubilee reconciliation, restoration, forgiveness, harmony.