Mwingi Central MP Joe Mutambu claimed on Sunday that he owns Wiper Party and can therefore not be forced out.Cord co-principal Kalonzo Musyoka is the leader of the Wiper Democratic Movement.Mutambu said he pays rent for the party's offices in Nairobi and that he is the one who furnished who furnished. I get surprised when I hear people calling us defectors and saying we should resign. We are not defectors because I personally own Wiper and all I want is to have it dissolved, he said.Read: MP Mutambu rubbishes Kalonzo's presidential bid, says Wiper leader can't win pollMutambu criticised those calling for their resignation saying that would subject citizens to unnecessary expenses. He said they should pay for the cost of the by-elections. We will not allow you to subject Kenyans to by-elections that will cost them billions of shillings because that will mean that the prices of unga (flour) and paraffin will go up, he said. It was just the other day that the same people were calling for the disbandment of the IEBC and now Kenyans have to pay for their exit. Now they want the same Kenyans to pay the bill for by-elections of almost 60 MPs, seven governors, six senators and about 100 MCAs, which is unacceptable."Also read: With or without Wiper, I will be re-elected MutambuMutambu spoke at St Paul s Catholic Church Matuu in Yatta alongside three of his colleagues from the lower Eastern region.They gave Kalonzo a 30-day ultimatum to call a leaders meeting to chart a political direction for the community ahead of the 2017 elections.They warned that if Kalonzo does not call the leaders meeting by November 15, they will mobilise the entire community for a major political declaration. We are in consultations with Kamba s who live in Mombasa, Nairobi, Taita Taveta and all other parts of the country, so Kalonzo can only ignore this call at his own peril," said Kaiti MP Richard Makenga.Yatta MP Francis Mwangangi said that they were under intense pressure to give the people direction. We have been pushed so hard by businessmen, clergy, clan elders and locals to offer political direction and being their elected leaders we cannot afford to remain silent anymore, said Mwangangi.He said that they were offering an olive branch to all leaders willing to join them in building the government of the future.Mbooni MP Kisoi Munyao said the community will head for political oblivion if no proper political strategies are put in place. We feel time has come for the community to sit down, strategise and come up with the way forward," said Kisoi.But in quick rejoinder, Wiper organising secretary Robert Mbui dismissed the MPs' ultimatum saying they did not have authority to issue them. How do they expect us to get instructions from them yet they are no longer part of us? he asked."In any case Kalonzo is not of their political class so he will not be bothered to take interest in what they are saying."