On the foothills of Mt Kilimanjaro, some 420km from Nairobi, I set off on a journey in search of young adolescent girls who are on the path to become women without undergoing female genital mutilation (FGM). It s about six o clock in the morning. Pupils from various schools have gathered at Lenksim Primary School for the Alternative Rite of Passage (ARP) ceremony. There are boys and girls, all dressed in traditional Maasai regalia. Just before they start singing and dancing to traditional Maasai songs, I meet 15-year-old Diana Lanoi, who ran away from home after her mother told her she would be cut. It is time for you to become a woman, her mother told her when she came back home from school one evening. She was then only 13. That s how I ran away from home to my aunt s house, which is about two kilometres from my parents house, Diana says.As she fiddles with her necklaces, Diana adds that she had no choice but to run away from the only place she had called home. I did not want health complications, like some of my friends who were circumcised. If I had not run away from home, how would my health be right now? Diana says.After our brief chat, she joins her friends, who are among 300 girls graduating from being a girl to a woman without undergoing the cut.During the ceremony, the graduates sing songs and narrate poems on why their parents insist they must be circumcised. FORMER CIRCUMCISER S STORYA few metres from where the ceremony is taking place sits 60-year-old Naserian Lankau outside her manyatta house.From a distance, she can hear the songs being sang by the young girls. We should just be left to be kids. We do not want to be married off. We do not want to be circumcised or watch over cattle. We have a right to go to school, the children sing.Naserian tells me she underwent the cut when she was around 10 years old. She is a mother of eight children.Naserian, a former circumciser, has cut more than 200 girls. Out of the five girls that I have given birth to, I only cut one of them with a razor blade. I remember her writhing in pain. I still remember her shouting Mama no! However, at that point, the only thing I could tell her was that she is now a woman, Naserian reminisces.She adds that for the girls she cut, she was paid with cattle. For those who did not have cattle, the price would range from Sh500 to Sh1,500. When I was cut by my aunt, it was one of the most painful experiences I have ever undergone in my life. I did not have any problem with my body, but because of my culture, it was compulsory that I be cut so I could be called a woman, Naserian says. I remember bleeding a lot after my aunt cut off my clitoris. After that, she tied my legs together, insisting that it would ease the pain and reduce the bleeding, she adds.She is now an anti-FGM ambassador and rescues girls who are forced to undergo the cut. She also ensures expectant women give birth in hospitals to avoid maternal deaths.The ARP is a programme run by the Africa Medical Research Fund (Amref) in communities still circumcising girls. The programme, which has been in existence for four years countrywide, has had more than 10,000 girls graduate from being a girl to a woman without undergoing the cut. The ARP programme is a way of telling the communities to shun FGM. Some of the girls who have benefitted from the programme are in universities, while others are educating their younger siblings on the ills of female circumcision, Dr Gitahi Githinji, Amref Africa group CEO says.ALTERNATIVE RITE OF PASSAGEThe ARP programme, which runs for three months, first entails having sessions with the community, before meeting girls who are at risk of being circumcised. The instructors will also have different sessions with the morans on the same subject.The World Health Organisation defines FGM as an act involving partial or total removal of the external female genitalia, or other injury to the female genital organs, for non-medical reasons.The mutilation is mostly carried out by traditional circumcisers, who also play other central roles in communities, such as attending to women who are about to give birth. Internationally, FGM is recognised as a violation of the human rights of girls and women. It reflects a deep-rooted inequality between the sexes, and constitutes an extreme form of discrimination against women.TYPES OF FGM There are four different types of FGM. They include clitoridectomy which is the partial or total removal of the clitoris. This is a small, sensitive and erectile part of the female genital. Excision refers to the partial or total removal of the clitoris and the labia minora (the inner folds of the vulva), with or without excision of the labia majora (the outer folds of skin of the vulva). The third type is known as infibulation, which is the narrowing of the vaginal opening through the creation of a covering seal. The seal is formed by cutting and repositioning the labia minora, or labia majora, sometimes through stitching, with or without removal of the clitoris.Some of the effects of FGM include: complications during childbirth, anaemia, the formation of cysts and abscesses, damage to the urethra resulting in urinary incontinence, painful sexual intercourse and increased risk of HIV infection.FACTSAccording to the Kenya Demographic Health Survey 2014, 21 per cent of women between 15 and 49 have been circumcised. The data also shows that among those circumcised, 43 per cent were circumcised between 10 and 14 years. Twenty-seven per cent were cut between five and nine years, while another 27 per cent were cut at 15 and above.Eighty per cent of these women were cut by traditional women circumcisers, while 15 per cent were cut by a medical professional. Even though the national prevalence has reduced by six per cent, some communities such as the Maasais, Somalis living in the northern part of Kenya, the Kisiis and even the Kikuyus are still practising female circumcision. However, when data is next collected, the prevalence would have dropped further, following the efforts NGOs and the Anti-FGM Board have put in place to sensitise the community about the outlawed practice, Anti-FGM Board chair Jebii Kilimo says.Since the inception of the Prohibition of FGM Act in 2011, only 67 cases have been handled by the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions.Christine Nanjala, Prosecuting Counsel at the DPP s, says they started handling these cases in 2014, after they had developed networks on the ground, and sensitised the community on what the Act stipulated.RESISTANCE Between 2011 and 2014, police officers were handling FGM cases. During that time, these cases were brought under section 14 of the Children s Act, where the perpetrators were being charged with subjecting a child to harmful practices, Nanjala says.Of the 67 cases the DPP s office has handled, 41 are still pending in court, while 10 have been determined. Seven have been acquitted as a result of community interference, whereby a witness could not be traced and so the case collapsed. The remaining nine were withdrawn under section 87a of the Criminal Procedure Code. There are many reasons why witnesses disappear, depending on the region the offence is reported. When you map out the hotspots of FGM, these are areas of vast terrains and poor infrastructure. Some community members are also hostile, which makes witnesses fear for their lives and go into hiding, Nanjala says. People need to appreciate the work the Office of the DPP is doing in prosecuting these cases, because they are cultural offences. We are dealing with a society that finds this to be normal. The abnormal aspect of it is not going through FGM, she adds.Five years down the line, some communities are still carrying out FGM on young girls, most of whom don t understand why their rights are being violated by people that should be protecting them.The Demographic Health Survey did not indicate the new parametres or dynamics of FGM. For instance, the Masaai community used to circumcise girls when they were at the adolescent age; nowadays they do it as early as five or six years.In some cases, there are some women who got married and were not circumcised going back to get cut, while in some communities, female circumcision is done in hospitals. Which begs the question; could culture be working against the law? Are communities using their culture to fight back? This is a practice that keeps on mutating. FGM is a culture. The law is one of the ways we are using to do away with it. However, if we say the law is the only element that must be applied strictly, what you are basically looking at is a revolt, because you are forcing someone out of their culture. The law has to be applied in tandem with community s behavioural change campaign. You cannot separate the two, Nanjala says.Nanjala added that some of the circumcisers and the girls who are to be cut cross over to the neighbouring countries to avoid being caught. Most of these offences take place in far-flung areas. When you look at the terrain of where they are going to commit these offences, some of those areas have no network coverage and no roads. But people live there. Even when they cross over to Uganda or Tanzania, the security forces can t get to them because the areas are not accessible. Some of them are also armed, she added. The only thing you can do is wait for the girls to return and if you catch them, you are going to apply the law. You will be charging the girls and not the circumcisers under section 21 of the Anti-FGM Act.It states that a person commits an offence if he/she takes another person from Kenya to another country, or arranges for another person to be brought into Kenya from another country, with the intention of having that other person subjected to FGM.In a bid to reduce or end to cases of female circumcision in the country, several NGOs and the DPP s office say the Anti-FGM Act should be translated into a language that enables the communities practising FGM to know it is wrong. This is one way that can work only because there is a lot of resistance on the ground when communities are being urged to shun female circumcision. Most of them would ask us who legislated that. We did not ask my MP to come up with that law. That is not my culture. This (FGM) is us. Hio sheria ni yenu (The law belongs to you), Nanjala says.Kilimo said the Anti-FGM Board is working with Amref and the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development to introduce FGM in the curriculum. This aims to give pupils access to information as is their right, as their parents and guardians never tell them about the dangers of FGM. We are glad we have a soft spot with the sheikhs, who will help us in reaching out to the Somali community, majority of whom believe it is in the Quran, Kilimo says.For Kenya to reduce FGM prevalence within a generation and identify the new parametres communities are coming up with to defeat the law, communities performing the cut should be educated. An uncompromising political will is also needed to protect girls and women from practices that violate their human rights.