Some people say no Kenyan political party has a political ideology. I disagree. Since I abandoned Kanu party because it championed dictatorship and killed democracy under one party rule, I joined Chama cha Mwananchi CCM that was driven by Social Democracy and vision of developing Kenya to First World. Unfortunately Chama cha Mwananchi did not grow into a big party and remained a small forum with challenges of propagating its ideology and vision, winning elections or growing into a big party that could win elections or influence policy of government and economy. Subsequently, playing politics of a small party became difficult because it played peripheral politics with insignificant contributions to the growth of the country and solution of national problems. Because we lack tradition of party members paying membership fees to raise resources with which to enlarge the party into a desired national Safina or Ark, CCM never became strong enough to rescue Kenyan humanity from the deluge of bad leadership, abject poverty, endemic corruption and genocidal negative ethnicity. Notwithstanding the inability of CCM to expand, I never lost my humanistic desire and vision of saving Kenya from poverty, ethnic divisions, corruption and negative ethnicity. To this end, I have always wanted to work with a bigger democratic party that would cater for the dream of Mau Mau freedom fighters and second liberators. When Jubilee Party was conceived, I was at crossroads of remaining in CCM or joining JP that was calling for issue-based politics, unification of the entire country and eradication of negative ethnicity. Contrary to this completely legitimate desire to join a bigger political outfit, propagandists, liars and tribalists have alleged I joined Jubilee Party after taking bribes for which I have never sold my soul. Other things also attracted me to Jubilee Party. Given the intractability of negative ethnicity, ethnic discrimination and ethnic divisions, I was also attracted to the promise of Jubilee Party to unite, not just the Kikuyu and Kalenjin communities, but 42 communities of Kenya. For me, unification and cohesion of Kenya, not just for votes but as an end in itself is a worthy cause. But for this I could have joined Cord that is an equally bigger platform? May be so but Jubilee had an extra appeal for me. It would bring me closer to my immediate neighbors first who deserve my political charity first. Further, to solve our national problems, Jubilee Party has been calling for issue-based politics to counteract those of ethnic communities, ethnic parties, ethnic leaders, and ethnic personality cults and negative ethnicity whose end I desire. It is also true that ethnic masses we seek to serve and Kenyanize are more with bigger than smaller parties. Consequently, a conscientious leader that wants to serve the people may be forced to follow people in bigger parties than wait for them to join him in a small party. I am not joining Jubilee Party because it is perfect. It is not. But with it there is one primary hope in its commitment to democracy both within and without the party. Should Jubilee Party and Cord coalition remain true to democracy and 2017 elections happen without rigging, people will have reason to believe Kenya has opened a new leaf of life of freedom, justice and brotherhood. As I go to Jubilee Party, I do so carrying my ideology and vision which I consider right and just but also because I believe the new party will be democratic enough to allow me to justify and sell them to other members who will also have their ideas to justify and sell. I do not believe Jubilee Party will be like Kanu party whose President Moi said: I call on all ministers and assistant ministers and every other person to sing like parrots You ought to sing the song I sing. If I put a full stop, you should put a full stop. This is how the country will move forward. By joining Jubilee Party I have not abandoned my basic political beliefs and principles of constructing a heaven on earth, uplifting the poor and the weak and standing for truth, justice and equality for all Kenyans. I only join others in Jubilee to actualize the same for the whole country. Contrary to claims, I don t believe Jubilee Party will embrace dictatorship which we suffered under Kanu. Instead, I believe it is a party dedicated to the eradication of poverty, corruption and negative ethnicity. September 22nd, 2016