The struggle for ethnic inclusion in this country is as old as Kenya: in the colonial era, this was due to at least three factors. First, as scholar Karuti Kanyinga has argued: In Kenya the colonial administration created native reserves by force. The state did not allow interaction between groups. This alone firmed up ethnic identities. The state imposed restrictions on movement of these groups from one area to another. Consequently, the society became ethnicised..[and] isolated.Dr. Kanyinga proceeds to provide the second cause of entrenched ethnic differentiation: The colonial state in Kenya also forced imbalances in regional development. The areas scheduled for setter farming and settlement attracted investments [and] developed faster than the rest of the country. The native reserves and Africans were generally neglected. Those who were to benefit later from colonial development included those groups that were gradually interlinked with the colonial settler economy. This structure had an important consequence for the society. It reproduced inequalities in regional development. And given that regional boundaries are coterminous with ethnic territories these inequalities were ethnic in character. Groups in regions that were close to the areas scheduled for the colonial settler economy, notably the central region inhabited by the Kikuyu, came out of the colonial situation comparatively more developed than others. Regions and groups that were located far from areas of interest to the colonial administration were neglected. The Somali in the North Eastern Province, the Luo in Nyanza, the Luhya in the Western Province, the Miji Kenda at the Coast, among others, suffered this neglect.The third factor was the colonial divide-and-rule tactic. Given that different ethnic groups did not have a common reference point to organize politically, [F]orming nationalist political parties during the struggle for decolonization became difficult the struggle for independence reproduced ethnic divisions and became the theatre on which ethnic differences and divisions were played out. These differences emanated from how the colonial government created the native reserves and the government s deliberate campaign to play one group against the other. Independence did not see any radical departure from the colonial architecture of state and society. Kanyinga notes: The post-independence government adopted, intact, the colonial economic and political structures Ethnicity remained a central factor in the organization of politics.Enter what historian Daniel Branch has titled The Kikuyu Ascendancy where one critic asked if the Republic of Kenya was made up of just one tribe or one man with his family . The KANU party seemed to be for Kikuyu only and the Kenyan government only Gatundu s government . Branch proceeds: But Kenyatta was in no mood to listen The expansion of Kikuyu settlement from 1969 onwards was part of the president s response to the challenges to his rule the president was determined to retain power by consolidating his Kikuyu powerbase. Alongside other measures land resettlement was the main way in which Kenyatta attempted to buy the support of the Kikuyu grassroots. The main beneficiaries, were however, the Kikuyu elites closely connected to the state, along with other key non-Kikuyu allies, such as Moi by the end of 1971, it was claimed that the cabinet was a suzerainty for Kikuyu leaders and their close cousins from the Embu and Meru communities It was this ascendant hegemonic Kikuyu structure that Jomo Kenyatta s successor Daniel Moi successfully assaulted. Kanyinga notes: First, Moi deconstructed the structures that owed their existence to the Kenyatta regime. The first to go in this respect was the Kikuyu numeric strength in the Cabinet and the executive in general. Beginning with about 30% in 1979 nine years later, in 1987, Moi had reduced the Kikuyu presence in the Cabinet to about 14%. The paring down of the Kikuyu in government continued. Their numbers reduced drastically in the 1990s after the reintroduction of multi-party politics.This era saw the rise of not just the Kalenjin ethnic group but also its strategic alignment with the Maasai, Turkana and Samburu ethnicities to form the KAMATUSA which was a carbon-copy replay of the political wedlock from the Kenyatta era of the Gikuyu, Embu, Meru and (more loosely) Akamba: GEMA. The end of the Moi era in 2002 saw a short-lived attempt within the successor National Rainbow Alliance (NARC) party to more equitably share public positions: nevertheless, it is noted that ultimately, The first five years of Kibaki s NARC administration appear to have undermined the principle of equitable distribution of cabinet and other public sector posts.This was at the heart of the political disagreements that fed the orgiastic violence that was triggered by the spectacular mishandling of the 2007 elections. The ethnic hue of this conflict was so evident it led to, for instance, New York Times columnist Nicholas Kristof, after a visit to Kenya during that period, mis-labeling it as savage primeval tribal tensions that threaten Kenya s future . Similarly mischaracterizing it, the Nairobi correspondent of the New YorkTimes contributed to the December 31, 2007 issue by remarking that Kenyans had tapped into an atavistic vein of tribal tensions that always lay beneat the surface Since then, the most comprehensive attempt to work towards more ethnic accommodation and inclusion is to be found in the provisions of the constitution of Kenya that was promulgated in 2010. Obviously, given the evidence we see from, for example, the NCIC ethnic audits, a lot more needs to be done. Building on the constitution, it would be useful to pay attention to the ideas generated around consensus democracy by such scholars as Arendt Lipjhart. In contrast to majoritarian democracies, consensus democracies have multiparty systems, parliamentary systems with oversized (and therefore inclusive) cabinet coalitions, proportional electoral systems, corporatist (hierarchical) interest group structures, federal/devolved structures, bicameralism, rigid constitutions protected by judicial review, and independent central banks. Ngure wa Gachanja is a human rights and democratic governance practitioner. The views expressed in this column are entirely his own and in no way represent or articulate those of any organizations he may be associated with.