Nairobi Water head coach Jack Ochieng has welcomed the presence of play-maker Michelle Adhiambo in the training ahead of the next week s 37th edition of the African women s handball Champions League in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso.Adhiambo, who was away on maternity leave, joined the reigning Kenya Handball Federation national league champions last week ahead of the event that kicks off on October 20-27. Adhiambo played key role for Nairobi Water when they retained the KVF League last season and last featured for the club during the Africa Club Championships in Tunisia in 2014Ochieng acknowledged that Adhiambo return is a major boost but was quick to note that she will have to fight for her position. It goes without saying that Adhiambo is utility player. However, there is no guarantee that she will make it to the squad as she will have to prove her worth. The competition for slots in the team is intense and I look forward to name a strong 15-member squad that will depart for the host nation on October 18, , said Ochieng.The tactician added: It s unfortunate we haven t played any friendly matches ahead of the event but I am glad we will get the chance to play rivals National Cereals and Produce Board on Saturday during the KHF league. We hope to use the league match to identify our weak areas and rectify the situation prior to the competition. Adhiambo will have to fight for the position along side regular Brenda Ariviza, Jane Waithera, Magadalene Muthoni and Brenda Musambai.The tactician also revealed they have sought the services of Kenya Defence Force player Alexina Ambani to reinforce the squad. He said: We have brought in Ambani just for this event but she remains a KDF player. She has the experience and I believe her services will come in handy. The local champions have in previous competitions posted dismal result and the tactician is targeting to go past group stages this time around. Last year in Morocco, we didn t go passed the group stages but with good preparation we are currently undergoing, we are aiming for better results, said Ocheing who doubles up as the national women s team coach.