It was difficult to believe, in those ancient days, that a future King of the Jews could be born in Bethlehem, an unknown village in the province of Juda. Can anything good come from Bethlehem? The cynics wondered aloud. Likewise, watching the film, The Queen of Katwe , set in the slums of Katwe in the city of Kampala, Uganda, one is tempted to ask: can anything good come from Katwe?It is not more than four years ago, 2013 to be precise, when Tim Crothers wrote this real life novel, The Queen of Katwe: The Story of Life, Chess and one Extraordinary Girl s Dream to Becoming a Grandmaster . The story revolves around a man called Robert Katende (played by David Oyelowo) who decided to venture into the slums of Kampala and teach poor kids the game of chess. Setting up an informal school where kids gathered to learn chess on a purely voluntary basis, Katende managed to spot one talented ten-year old girl called Phiona Mutesi (played by Medina Nalwanga) who rose from a maize hawker to a world chess champion through Katende s school in the slums of Katwe. The story is riveting, stranger than fiction but as real as my name is Anyang Nyong o. Let us tell it to you. A young woman called Nakku Harriet (Lupita Nyong o), no doubt in her late twenties, loses her husband and is left with three children to look after: Phiona Mutesi and her two little brothers who also feature in the story. Without a job, a proper house to live in and no extended family to depend on, Harriet is compelled to depend on her wits to earn a living for the family. She gets Phiona and her baby brother Brian Mugabi (Martin Kabanza) to join the family work force of hawking boiled maize on the cob to all and sundry who can buy so that the family in turn can pay the basic necessities of life, including pay rent for the shuck they live in. For all intents and purposes the single mother and her kids live a life that is a hustle. Worried about the safety of her children on a daily basis in this cruel environment, Harriet portrays herself as a dare devil creature, ready to fight in defense of each member of her family faced with any threat. At one point Brian is hit by a motor cycle while hawking maize on the streets of Katwe. Mother and daughter climb on another motor cycle with Brian to rush him to hospital. While Brian is undergoing treatment, Harriet realises that she may soon have to face a medical bill she would not be able to pay. She quickly smuggles Brian out of his hospital bed to take him home to Katwe. On arrival home, the family of three finds another misfortune stubbornly standing like a she elephant in front of their shack, forbidding any entry. This is the land lady whose rent has not been paid and hence throws the family away to walk the night in search of shelter elsewhere. When misfortune strikes it does not come singly: it pours down like a thunderstorm.As the legendary wise men are reported in popular folklore to have said, fortune also only knocks once in the life of a human being. One day, wondering in the Katwe slums while hawking maize, the young boy Brian discovered a ramshackle shelter where children were being taught to play chess by Robert Katende. He got attracted and joined the group, sacrificing the day s possible sale of boiled maize. Back home in the evening, he told this story to his sister Phiona who went along a few days later. Very soon this became habitual, with the two children spending more and more time at the school until Harriet discovered their mischief. Rather than take her wrath on the kids, the protective mother went straight to Katende the teacher, warning him against misleading her kids into some wayward life. But skilled in communication and the art of persuasion, Ketende managed to convince Harriet of the value of the education and the training the children were getting. And so the classes prospered with Phiona, on a daily basis, revealing her hidden talent.Convinced that he had now developed a chess team in his Katwe school which could compete in Uganda s inter-schools chess competition, Katende approached Uganda s ministry of education to enroll his school in the schools national chess tournament. The idea of an informal slum school entering an inter-schools national chess tournament was an absolute absurdity to the bureaucrats in the ministry of education who dismissed Katende from the word go. But he persisted. Threatened that the enrollment fee was beyond his ability to pay, Katende took some time off to lend his soccer playing skills to a team in a soccer tournament which this team won. Katende thereby earned the money to pay for the enrollment fee for the chess tournament. It so happened that the chess tournament was held at the prestigious King s College Budo. Seeing the slum kids from Katwe entering Budo where much more privileged children paraded around in smart school uniforms--smugly looking at these owls who had blundered into daylight--marked the pinnacle of the movie and the message it is delivering. In Uganda, as elsewhere in the world, class distinction is a reality we have to live with. But it is also a reality that can give some false notions regarding where some superior talent is hidden, waiting for an appropriate moment or opportunity to emerge. The opportunity can come and go and the talent may never be known. But if the opportunity is seized like Phiona did, it will climb mountains, and triumph against some of the most formidable obstacles that can be imagined. And that is what happened at the Budo chess tournament. The Katwe kids won against all expectations, and victoriously went back to Katwe, receiving a thunderous welcome by fellow slum dwellers, now owning Katende s chess team as one of their own. From then on it was victory after victory in Uganda, East Africa and even Europe. A failure in Russia to clinch a world championship did not totally discourage Phiona from pursuing her ambition to become a Grand Master in chess. In their real lives today, Robert Katende and Phiona Mutesi are still pursuing this ambition, with Phiona dividing her time between pursuing high school education and playing chess. Mira Nair s production of the Queen of Katwe has been hailed by many reviewers as a master piece. At its first screening at the Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF) on Saturday September 10, the audience was spell bound from the beginning to the end. All the actors were superb with not a single weakness in the chain that held the whole movie together. David Oyelowo, as Robert Katende and Lupita Nyong o as Harriet, Phiona Mutesi s (Madina Nalwanga) mother, give their best in this movie, making it a movie to watch in the coming Academy awards. By sheer acting talent and the power to tell a moving story from a part of humanity often forgotten and even betrayed--I mean the poor--this movie entertains fully as it teaches usefully. Walt Disney, in investing in its production and screening, has no doubt fulfilled a mission to the world s children visibly showing them that no matter where, and notwithstanding from whence, the dream in every child to become something is always valid. Looking at Madina Nalwanga s portrayal of Phiona Mutesi, Martin Kabanza s role as Brian Mugabi, Kyaze who played Night and all the other young members of the cast, this movie gives the tremendous revelation of the enormous artistic talent in African children waiting to be tapped. Mira Nair s Maisha Film Lab based in Kampala needs to be celebrated for the good work it is doing to nurture the talent of young African actors for both the screen and the stage. By linking up with Walt Disney in the production and marketing of the Queen of Katwe in which Maisha s alumnus, Lupita Nyong o is a leading star, Mira has pushed Maisha a notch higher. We will no doubt expect more and more first class movies to come out of Maisha, starring the many promising young talents from Katwe who currently comprise the full cast of the Queen of Katwe. On the first of October, just a few days away from today, the Queen of Katwe will be screened for the first time in Uganda at the Acacia Centre. What will no doubt impress the Ugandan audience is how deeply Ugandan the movie is, depicting the authenticity of the actors having immersed themselves completely into the Kampala culture and lingo as the movie was produced. Kudos to Mira Nair as the Director, William Wheeler for converting the story into screenplay and the team of producers who worked tirelessly with the actors and everybody else to make this movie such an invaluable work of art.