Primary school teachers are now undergoing comprehensive training on how to use computers during teaching as an important ingredient to support the laptop project for Class One learners.This follows the shift of the ICT training from the Ministry of Education to the Teachers Service Commission in March this year. TSC confirmed that Novel Technologies East Africa is undertaking the training contract that would see 12,000 teachers trained in the first phase at a cost of Sh118 million.The first phase of the training started on May 30, and is expected to end on July 30.ICT training for teachers is key to the success of teaching using laptops for Class One children where 150 primary schools have already received tablet computers in the April pre-trial exercise. Teachers will get a 14 inch blue laptop, learners 10 inch luminous green tablets, while special need pupils will have 12 inch laptops with braille key boards, head phones and an embosser.In March, Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i made the decision to change tact in ICT training for teachers. He is said not to have been satisfied with the work done during the training of the initial 60,000 teachers between 2013 to 2015 and immediately announced that the new training will have teachers issued with certificates upon completion unlike before. The Teachers Service Commission will lead the training to increase numbers of already trained teachers, Matiang'i said then without giving further details.ICT director at the Ministry of Education John Temba, said the reason for the decision was because TSC was the employer. There were logistical nightmares when it came to inviting teachers for training, he said. TSC communications manager Kihumba Kamotho said the shift in training was necessary after the Cabinet Secretary thought TSC was better placed after the earlier training lacked a monitoring mechanism. The monitoring mechanism aspect laid to rest the question on whether many of the trained teachers will successfully and effectively convert to the digital environment. It was basically decided because TSC has the capacity being the employer of teachers, Kamotho said.Previously, the ministry together with other agencies like TSC, Cemastea, Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development, Kenya Institute of Special Education and the Kenya Education Management Institute, conducted the training where Sh560 million was spent. The agencies also developed the digital content and curriculum guidelines and training manual for primary school teachers on ICT integration into the learning process.The initial training of teachers had identified 150 master trainers from the agencies who later trained about 2000 teachers, then tasked to train a critical mass of teachers in counties and sub counties that resulted to 60, 000 trained teachers. The new training drive is currently in 22 counties with each of the counties having one training centre laboratory complete with computers, internet and projectors. Facilitation by Novel Technologies is based on the 2011 Unesco developed ICT - Competence Framework for Teachers, outlining the competencies that teachers need in order to integrate ICTs into their professional practice. The framework aims to provide guidelines and a basic set of qualifications to develop courses for pre-service or in-service teachers, in order to enable teachers to integrate ICT in a pedagogically effective way.Based on three approaches to teaching technology literacy, knowledge deepening, and knowledge creation, the training ensures teachers are equipped with understanding ICT in education, curriculum assessment, teaching delivery methods (pedagogy), ICT, organisation and administration and teacher professional learning.Novel Technologies training manager Jacktone Magina said the training has a 1:1 of computer-teacher ratio, two ICT support staff to enable hands-on training sessions. In each class of 32 teachers, there is one trainer. Teachers who score 70 per cent and above are issued with the International Microsoft Certified Educator which qualifies them to teach anywhere in the world. Those that score above 50 per cent get the regional East Africa Microsoft Imagine Academy Certificate showing they have passed with a C grade. At the end of the five-day training course teachers are being issued with Microsoft Certified Educator certificates. Teachers are happy with the certificates because it gives them an opportunity for continuous professional development in future from any place, said Magina.