On December 4, 2012, we gathered at the Jevanjee Gardens in Nairobi and signed a deal that joined TNA and URP into an alliance that later became the Jubilee Coalition. Many doubted this unity of purpose claiming it was made up of two tribes which some said had a bitter past due to the 2007 post-election violence.It is now almost four years, and just over a month since we joined up again at the Kasarani Stadium where, led by President Uhuru Kenyatta, we launched the Jubilee Party. It was not just TNA and URP that merged but a host of 10 other political parties.The transition from a coalition to a conglomerate party was unexpected for many who thought because of the history of coalitions in Kenya, we would disintegrate. Even now, there some still trying to make it look as if there are problems in the party, far from what we, as insiders, know.Many forget or do not know, why we came together in 2012, and why we invited even more people to join us in this mega party. We, led by President Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto, have always said that we came together because Kenya needs to prosper and to do so, we must be united.Those speaking doom of our party, especially those in the opposition, should wait and watch as this party and country prosper. Our party has a goal which will be delivered in 2017 and beyond to win the presidency, to win majority seats in Parliament and other elective positions and to use this majority for the good of Kenyans.We know the Jubilee government has worked hard and well to deliver on most of its promises made ahead of the 2013 general election. For those of us who have been given the mandate to manage counties, we have worked with the national government to ensure that we also deliver.The opposition, just like anywhere else in the world, will never accept that Kenyans, including those who did not vote for Jubilee, are enjoying the fruits of this government. This is the reason why, as the Jubilee Party, we are focussed on winning in 2017 and in 2022 to ensure Kenyans get the development they deserve.But for us to do this, we in Jubilee must do a number of things which will guarantee us that victory. To start with, we must remain united at the nominations and during elections next year. We must not be distracted by our opponents who cannot put their house in order.As I have continuously told the people of Kiambu, unity is key in any society, and Jubilee Party is not exempted from this.Even I myself, I will have to square it out with others at the primaries with the hope that I will get a second term and to continue with the good work I am doing. All the other elected leaders will have to compete at the nominations and should resolve to support whoever wins.This is brings me to my second point. That all we are asking for in the Jubilee Party is a free, fair and democratic nomination process that will not only give us the best candidates but also reflect the will of the Jubilee supporters.Personally, I am always ready to back anyone who wins elections but I expect that in this case, I will win.Elections come once in every five years but development will happen for posterity. We in Jubilee should focus on development, and continue uniting Kenyans.The party nominations and the elections that will follow should not be used to divide either our supporters or the rest of Kenyans. After all, Jubilee leaders have committed themselves to a free and fair nomination process and peaceful election.