A family in Kagaa village, Murang a county, is calling for help in exorcising evil spirits they say are attacking two daughters. They say they need spiritual assistance from deliverance ministers of God to cast away demonic attacks .Two of Samson Mburu s daughters have been suffering from what the family believes is witchcraft. The attacks started in April.When the Star visited, neighbours and well-wishers had come to pray for the family. Even before the session was over, one daughter started convulsing. She jumped, threw herself to the ground and hissed like a snake. She convulsed for more than 15 minutes. Daughter Grace Wanjiru said she has been suffering from unexplained ailments for four months. She said it started as a simple nose bleed and slight headaches. Wanjiru, a widow and a mother of five, said she has been experiencing severe stomachaches and at times feels as though there are objects moving inside her body. Whenever I collapse, my limbs tremble so much and I get a feeling that my head has been detached from the rest of the body. I also get funny feelings of some spirits invading my systems, she said. They take me to a cemetery, but whenever I pray they bring me back after a severe battle with them. She said she has been unable to care for her children and she depends on her aging parents, who are jobless. Her husband has died. Her youngest sister, 13, suffers the same problem. At the time of the interview, she was unable to talk after she suffered an attack . Their mother Malka Syombua said she suspects the problem originated in their former residence in Kagaa Settlement Scheme, Kenol.Their mother Malka Syombua said she suspects the ailment originates from their former place of residence in Kagaa Settlement Scheme, Kenol subCounty. She said she had had so many complications even when giving birth to most of her children. I have been falling sick so often, especially when we lived in Kagaa. When it became unbearable, I prayed to God to get us away from that place. That is why we live in this incomplete house, she said.Syombua says in the previous home, she would get visions of a very big snake that would come and stay in their homestead. She would always get visions of unexplained dangers that were about to hit the family.After leaving that area, her children started developing epileptic kind of ailments, which even after visiting various hospitals and undergoing several X-rays, the doctors never diagonised any ailment."It has now been four long painful months of suffering," she said.They are appealing to those people who "possess the gift of spiritual healing" to come and pray for divine intervention. They say many false prophets have been visiting the home with no results, even after demanding money from them.