FIRST there was the #nomakeupselfie. Now there's #wakeupcall. As you may have noticed (ie, can't avoid) the latest charity selfie campaign sweeping social media involves snapping a mugshot as soon as you wake up and sharing it with the world, all in the name of raising money for Unicef's work in Syria.But good cause aside, no one looks good first thing in the morning. With the possible exception of Naomi Campbell, whose own #wakeupcall had the rest of us wondering what we can do to look as fresh-faced first thing as a supermodel. From the luxury sleep mask to an eye-opening serum, here is a guide to waking up beautifully this winter.Sometimes eight hours' sleep is a pipedream. But there are ways to look refreshed regardless of how long your head has been on the pillow. The Sleeping BB Mask from Korean brand Erborian (Sh4,200, spacenk.co.uk) contains a potent combination of herbs used in Asia for thousands of years. Simply slap it on and wake up to a baby-soft complexion.Meanwhile, those looking for a luxury night cap should invest in La Prairie's Skin Caviar Luxe Sleep Mask (Sh27,000 harveynichols.com), which contains caviar extract to firm, sunflower-seed oil to replenish moisture levels and enzyme technology from carica papaya to imbue a healthy glow.If things are looking a little lacklustre when the alarm goes off, your skin needs a wake-up of its own. The cult Refine and Polish Miracle Balm from Aurelia Probiotic Skincare (Sh7,500, spacenk.com) contains a medley of skin-brightening bio-organic oils and powerful fruit enzymes and can be used as a scrub to revive tired complexions or as a quick five-minute mask to bring hungover skin back to life.Nude Skincare's Detox Brightening Fizzy Powder Wash (Sh5,000, nudeskincare.com) is as energising as it sounds with multiple sources of vitamin C.Follow with Sarah Chapman's Morning Facial (Sh5,900, sarahchapman.net) a supercharged serum oil to deliver intense hydration and radiance for a post-facial glow that lasts all day and a layer of Charlotte Tilbury's Magic Cream ( 9,200, net-a-porter.com), a backstage favourite by Kate Moss's make-up artist, famed for its ability to transform dull and dehydrated complexions.Perk up your poor peepers with Kiehl's Super Multi-Corrective Eye-Opening Serum (Sh4,800, kiehls.co.uk), which helps to smooth and firm skin for a more wide-awake look. MAC's Fast Response Eye Cr me (Sh2,800, maccosmetics.co.uk) also promises to de-puff in an instant thanks to its heavily caffeinated formula. If dark circles are your bugbear, try La Roche-Posay's new Pigmentclar Eyes Dark Circle Skin-Evening Corrector (Sh3,100, laroche-posay.co.uk), which glides on with a soothing, cooling metal applicator to invigorate the eye area and contains light-reflecting pigments.The real secret to morning glory lies in a few well-placed touches of make-up after all, it worked for Naomi. Rodial's Instaglam Eye Tint (Sh3,800, rodial.co.uk) is a lightweight brightening concealer laced with hyaluronic acid which as the name suggests is perfect for naturally camera-ready eyes. Make sure to curl your lashes to cure sleepy doe eyes, and if they're fair, finish with a little wiggle of Burberry's Effortless Mascara (Sh2,900, burberry.com).Finally, forgo lipstick in favour of a tinted lip balm Dr Paw Paw's cult version is now available with a flattering peachy pink tint (Sh910, drpawpaw.com), while By Terry's Baume de Rose in Rosy Babe (Sh4,600, net-a-porter.com) is enriched with volumising bio-ceramides for a perfect my-lips-but-better finish.