American RnB icon, Trey Songz is in Nairobi for the recording on the fourth edition of the Pan African music show, Coke Studio Africa. Before he got down to work, the Slow Motion hit-maker experienced Nairobi on the fast lane.Trey boarded a matatu nganya - the trendiest public service vehicle - that plies the Rongai route called Catalyst. The matatu is said to be the coolest and most sought after ride on the route with a rotating LED projector screen on its floor and very comfortable seats with smaller screens on their backs. "I was to take him through a designated route. If he was here for a longer period," Nyashinski said, he would have given him a more extensive tour of "mtaani"."The matatu ride was great. The music got really, really loud. It was loud, like a real live studio," Trey said. "He [Nyashinski] explained to me the culture of matatus, you know the graffiti on the outside and it is just an amazing piece of culture and heritage. For myself, coming to a beautiful place like this...I'm from America where we don't have much culture as black people . You know, we are not from there. So to come somewhere and see such entertainment, life and love, such culture, just makes me feel that much closer to home. I look forward to experiencing much more. After the ride, I wasn't able to do much else but get to the studio, which I'm here for."The Na Na star added that we will get to see him "sing in Swahili" inspired by Nyashinski.Anyhow, here is a special dedication to Trey Songs about Rongai by Serro.Trey Songz was joined by a cross section of the African artistes in the studio this week. The music collaboration will feature Nyashinski (Kenya), Vanessa Mdee (Tanzania), Yemi Alade (Nigeria), Lij Michael (Ethiopia), Stonebwoy (Ghana), Neyma (Mozambique), Serge Beynaud (Ivory Coast), Rema Namakula (Uganda), Emtee (South Africa) and the South African celebrity producer Maphorisa of the Soweto Baby hit fame. The show launches across the continent on October 9, 2016."I'm working on my 7th studio album, which is crazy. I remember trying to become an artiste, never dreaming of leaving my city and here I am, years later in Coke Studio, Kenya," Trey spoke about his hustle as an artiste, "I had so many of those moments [of my mum crying because of the height of my success]. I call my mama every time I land, like on Facetime. She is like, 'How is it?'. I'm like, 'Mama, I'm still at the airport!'"Asked about his music projects and what fans should expect he said, "I want to continue making music I love, keep staying true to myself, true to my fans, have my fans grow with me as i go on this journey. I want to make music that people can relate to, love to, cry to, dance to, make love to..."Trey added, "My last album came out two years ago and that is because I haven't wanted to rush and make a product just because people want me to make music or come out with an album. To me, an album is still as important as it was for my first album. In a world where singles have become the focus of an artiste, a label, even people who consume music have been very much obsessed with 'single, single, single, single' and with music being so accessible it is very easy for people to do other things while listening to music."He continued, "What I do when I create music, I want to give you a full meal, I don't want you to stop by and get your food, then you check it, something is missing, then you go back to the street. I want you to get your full meal. I want you to feel it in your heart, I want you to know I worked hard on it."PHOTOS/ Moses Mwangi