Last week was an exciting time, especially for President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto s supporters. The Jubilee Party was launched following the merger of 12 affiliate parties in the Jubilee Alliance. Many critics had said the three-day event would be unsuccessful, with some friends even claiming the merger will kill multiparty democracy.However, it was clear that the launch was well organised and some of the key speakers retaliated that the coming together of all the 12 parties was based on the need for strong national political parties. The theme of the speeches made during the three-day convention was clear - that unity of purpose had brought all these parties together. It was clear that the more than 7,000 delegates were ready to kill parties that were either community or ethnic-based.This points to maturity in our political arena, where JP has taken the lead role in ensuring Kenyans are not boxed into tribal-based parties or entities owned by a few individuals. This will not only alter the Kenyan political landscape but will also create an environment where parties become more than just vehicles to win elections.JP is a movement of people who share the same ideals of uniting Kenya for the sake of development and transformation.Most of the parties that folded up were regional-based you could tell by the composition of their officials and where they have elected leaders. ODM and its other partners in Cord, Wiper and Ford Kenya, were among the parties that suffered from JP s launch as four governors, one senator and 35 MPs moved to the new outfit.The fact that political leaders and their supporters are willing to leave those parties and join JP underscores the popularity of a party with a national outlook. Defectors came from across the country - Western, South Nyanza, Northern Kenya, the Coast and the Lower Eastern region of Ukambani and underscored the major inroads that Uhuru and Ruto have made.But the Jubilee Party also showed it was basing its politics on issues something that has been lacking in the country s political arena. The speeches at the NDC and the launch were clearly based on the need for unity as an ingredient of development and transformation, regardless of gender, religion or tribe. There were very many testimonials from members of the public about how programmes and projects initiated by the Jubilee government had transformed their lives.If you compare this with the speeches at the ODM function in Mombasa, you will see a clear contrast the Orange party appeared to have no clear agenda for the party and its supporters. In Mombasa, most speakers concentrated on attacking the government based on allegations lacking evidence and without even saying what they would do differently.To them, Jubilee had not achieved anything, despite their supporters being among the beneficiaries of the government s initiatives. The opposition clearly lacks an agenda and this is why ODM keeps mimicking what Jubilee does. This includes visiting the same areas after the President or the Deputy President has visited on development matters.But the fact that the Jubilee administration is being accepted across the country, with elected leaders leaving their parties for JP, shows that they have realised there is nothing to gain from being in the opposition. JP is thus the party of the future of Kenyan politics, where development and unity matter the most.