 My view is that the opposition in our country is actually more to blame for our failures than the ruling party of the moment, the reason being that instead of doing its job of keeping the government in check and holding the government to a national agenda, the opposition opposes with the aim of discrediting the government of the day and thus taking over power itself A near and dear friend of mine posted this over the past weekend as we critically and robustly debated and assessed the state of Kenya s democracy. I disagreed and another contributor made the now-familiar and predictable accusation that Kenya s civil society had taken sides with the opposition. I disagreed with this view too.But the question, however, lingered tantalizingly in the air: who between the two, Jubilee and CORD should carry this cross of killing Kenya s democracy? I still hold on to the position that this is a false binary: they are both almost equally responsible as the head and tail sides of the same coin. Here is why.Government and opposition performance is measureable. The constitution, development plans, political party manifestos and public statements from both sides create obligations to which they can be held accountable. The key, it is proposed, is to filter key outcome areas to assess. These would include themes such as: freedom, livelihoods/cost of living and the provision of services, financial management/anti-corruption, security, development, inclusion, devolution and international relations.What has been the record of the government in delivering on these and the opposition in holding it accountable? The area of devolution is doubly intriguing as it is an area in which the opposition, in areas where it is designated as the county government, needs to demonstrate delivery and performance.Freedom: it is sad that, the government is led by one whose name Uhuru means freedom yet has been so abject in respecting, protecting, fulfilling and promoting key human rights and freedoms. Numerous reports vindicate this position. F The opposition too has shown no integrated and collaborative approach in addressing this issue: rather, it has been opportunistic and spasmodic. Indeed, in devolved spaces where the opposition effectively governs, it has not proved to be any better than the government. E Livelihoods, cost of living and the provision of services: are we better off today than we were in April 2013? The government scores another F. The opposition has not fared any better; outside episodically, spasmodically and opportunistically paying lip service to it. F Financial Management/anti-corruption: another straight F for government; from raw, naked and unashamed waste of public resources to taking up new sovereign debt that in three years reportedly almost doubled the size of our national debt, this has proved to be a gory story of unabashed impunity. And let s not start on the so-called war on corruption.Raila Odinga admirably and tenaciously raised questions around Eurobond. But there was no stern rebuke for governors and county assemblies in CORD-controlled areas who clearly had their sticky fingers in the till. E Security: things have been so bad that government has tried to engage in sophistry by spinning that security is every citizen s duty. Balderdash! Government (national) is the sole duty bearer of security. It has the cardinal obligation under our social contract to deliver on this specific item. The citizen has a right to be secured. Hence, the true position should be stated as follows: security belongs to one and all of us; it is the duty of government to deliver on it. F Yet again, the opposition has failed to articulate a cogent and coherent response to the rampant insecurity in the country. It is so bad that one from its own ranks is now the cabinet secretary for internal security. FDevelopment: the government proudly boasts of having a stellar developmental record. The truth is, cruelly, actually the opposite: what it has really provided is developmentalism rather than development . For those in doubt please pull out and review the Jubilee Alliance manifesto from 2013. A rudimentary evaluation demonstrates that it has fared feebly on each of the promises it made under the pillars Umoja (unity), Uchumi (economy) and Uwazi (openness). F The opposition has totally failed to articulate itself on and demonstrate this abject failure; so much so that the government continues to pretty successfully and boldly trumpet its success in development. F Inclusion: the abject failure of government is naked to the eye. F. The opposition is not any better. F Devolution: the council of governors continues to plaintively cry about delayed and/or unfulfilled financial disbursements, intrusive administrative arrangements and the failure to transfer roles that should ideally fall under devolved units. Clearly, despite its loud protestations of innocence, the government is anti-devolution. F The opposition has talked a mean game about initiating the call for deepened devolution, as evinced from the Okoa Kenya campaign. But has it held counties where it is effectively in charge to account in order that these units accord to constitutional and legal fidelity and good performance? D International Relations: when a taxi driver originating in Kisii says he will vote for Jubilee in 2017 because he has never felt prouder than to see the international community come flocking into Kenya, this is an eloquent illustration of a Jubilee Party strength. Uhuru Kenyatta is, as famous social commentator and columnist Oyunga Pala once remarked, The King of Cool . This is notwithstanding the reasonable protests that the content of this engagement is largely undemocratic. A The opposition has dismally dithered in this terrain; frittering opportunity after another to state its case internationally. Recall President Obama s rebuke of the opposition during his visit? F So who is killing our democracy? Take your pick: both political camps are busy gorging themselves on Kenya for breakfast, lunch and dinner; and the snacks in between. And we are gleefully cheering them on.