South Africa will consider a request for Kenyans to get visas upon arrival in the country, President Uhuru Kenyatta has said. Uhuru noted on Tuesday that Kenya extends this privilege&nbsp;to &nbsp; South African nationals. But President Jacob Zuma declined to make a pledge on when tough visa rules for Kenyans will be reviewed. &quot;We have agreed to consider (this) and&nbsp;increase trade between our two countries,&quot; Uhuru said in a joint media conference with President Jacob Zuma at State House in Nairobi. &quot;There is no reason why both our countries cannot agree on exemption of visas for each other&rsquo;s citizens .&quot; The President said the two countries will &nbsp;also expand their cooperation areas including the education, finance and vocational training sectors. He said immigration rules need attention as Kenya and South Africa have many foreigners who may take advantage of loopholes. South African President Jacob Zuma and President Uhuru Kenyatta shakes hands at State House in Nairobi after their joint press conference, October 11, 2016. /PSCU Zuma said he supported Uhuru&#39;s remarks on concluding fruitful deliberations. &quot;[The] visa issue is receiving attention,&quot; he said, without making a definite commitment. &quot;We have agreed to create an enabling environment to ensure ease of doing business in our countries.&nbsp;We see a lot of room for expansion in South Africa-Kenya relations.&quot;South Africa introduced a raft of changes to its visa regime in May 2014 making it impossible for all foreigners to renew their documents within its borders. Two weeks later in June, Kenya responded by proposing strict conditions effective September 1, 2014. The conditions only targeted South Africans travelling into and transiting through Kenya.The country&nbsp;has not been issuing visas to South Africans at the port of entry making them wait a week before travelling into or transiting through Kenya. Read: Kenya hopes for business boom in new South Africa Visa rule