The world is just so fluid and fast moving and since Brexit it seems never have so many got it so wrong. Nate Silver, the US Pollster ranked Donald Trump's chances of being the next President of the United States at 34.4 per cent. Now the first thing to observe is that this a two-horse race. The second thing to observe is that 'event' risk surely favours Trump. Over the weekend a deafening explosion rocked Chelsea, injuring 29 people, blowing out scores of windows and forcing the evacuation of at least two buildings. The blast went off in a 4-by-4-by-3-foot construction dumpster outside the Townhouse Inn of Chelsea at 131 W. 23d St reported the New York Post. This time, the narrative behind the explosion did not cross the threshold. Just imagine a situation a few days before the vote, where the narrative crosses the threshold. In a tightly fought race, such an 'event' is going to move the dial big time in Trump's favour, probably move the dial significantly further than Nigel Farage's poster showing a queue of migrants and refugees moved the dial in favour of Brexit. Its all about turnout (something Gabon's President Ali Bongo Ondimba worked out a while back - Bongo's stronghold Haut-Ogooue province clocked a a 99.93 per cent turnout versus a countrywide average of less than 50 per cent, with 95 per cent voting in favour of Bongo). If Trump can turn on and turn out his base and Hillary can't, then this is a toss-up. Now where will the world be in the event of a President Trump? Who really knows or can predict that? 34.4 per cent seems to be a trading buy. As of last week, investors owned the biggest long position in the VIX ever (the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index reflects a market estimate of future volatility).Now lets just go back to the G20 and the extraordinary situation where President Obama had to exit his plane from the rear and without a red carpet. This was not a mistake. This was deliberate. Of course, President Obama could teach Sun Tzu to the Chinese and he did when he said: "I wouldn't over crank the significance of it, we've got a lot of planes and helicopters and a lot of cars and a lot of guys and, you know, if you're a host country, sometimes it may feel a little bit much."What we know is that President Xi Jinping is hard-edged and this diplomatic snub caught on the 24 hours News loops was the equivalent of being slashed with a knife in broad day light.The Asia Times carried a report last week which speculated China may seize Scarborough Shoal during the final weeks of the US presidential election as America s gaze turns inward. If China is going to strike in the South China Sea, mid-September right until the November presidential election could not be a better time, explained a senior US Department of Defense official who agreed to be interviewed but not identified. Or, put in a different way, another US defense official, again speaking on background, explained: Beijing s best window to take advantage of certain trend lines and cement its claims in the South China Sea is right after the G20. American newspapers won t give front-page status to a China story during the heart of the election, well, unless they start shooting, and they won t be that stupid. For Beijing, the timing is perfect. If Xi Jinping is seriously ready to make this a ''Put Up or Shut Up'' moment for the US in the Pacific in what is considered a ''lame-duck'' period for a US President, then we are in for a very interesting moment, a moment of possibly enormous geopolitical volatility.The Fed meets this week. The market has a September rate hike of 25 basis points priced at less than 20 per cent and just one rate hike before year end priced marginally below 50 per cent. Its been a groundhog day with the Fed who have barked endlessly but have done little else. A September rate strike would catch the markets off-guard.With so many curve balls out there Paul Virilio's 'Wealth is the hidden side of speed and speed the hidden side of wealth', is something to ponder.