Former MP Peris Simam and her husband Enock Kimeli were detained yesterday when they failed to pay Sh10 million fines after they were found guilty of corruption by an Eldoret court.They were found guilty of 10 counts of corruption. They will each be jailed for 20 years if they do not pay the fines. The fines are between Sh700,000 to Sh5 million for each of the counts.Simam, Kimeli and four others were charged with economic crimes and abuse of office when Simam was MP between 2007-2013.She was accused of influencing the award of a tender to her company Kachur Holdings for construction of the Bayete-Chuiyat-Bargeiywa road. More than Sh4.5 million were illegally paid to the firm. The road was not repaired.The co-accused were Shachile Mikoya Laban, Maluti Pamella Maluti, John Simiyu Khaemba and Wisdon Kimutai Maina. As rightfully stated by the prosecution, Kenyans should know that embezzlement of public funds, economic crime and corruption do not pay. As a result of actions by the six accused, Eldoret South residents did not get value for money and the worst part is that the leader player was an MP, Chief magistrate Wanjiku Cherere said. The prosecution has proved all the 10 counts beyond reasonable doubt and I find the accused guilty. The prosecution was led by Deputy DPP Nicholas Mutuku, who sought the maximum sentence for the accused. The court found that some documents used by the accused in the case had been falsified. The money lost was to benefit the people of Kesses constituency. They have suffered, Mutuku said. The defence lawyers said they will appeal against the judgement. But Cherere ordered they be detained until Monday, when she will rule on their application for bond, pending their appeal at the High Court.Peris Simam served as Eldoret South MP. She lost the Kesses seat to incumbent James Bett. Simam has indicated she will run for the Uasin Gishu Senate seat next year. The former legislator and her husband Enock Kimeli, together with the regional manager for the Kenya Rural Roads Authority in Eldoret town Laban Mikoya, faced nine separate charges on illegal acquisition of public money. They also faced charges of abuse of office and failure to adhere to tendering procedures in relation to repair and maintenance of roads in Eldoret South.