Every morning, Cherangany MP Wesley Korir wakes up longing to kill three birds with one stone. He has to divide his time between parliamentary business and his training regiment at the Nyayo National Stadium.And he has to attend to his family obligations too. It was hard at the beginning to divide my time, says the 34-year-old first term legislator and the 2012 Boston Marathon winner and two-time Los Angeles marathon winner. But I have managed to balance it. I wake up early in the morning and do my exercise and by 9 o clock I am done, after which I go to Parliament. Sometimes he trains in the evening, swaping his suit for his training gear and going to the Nyayo Stadium. It requires a lot of discipline, dedication and passion. If you love what you do, you are most inclined to find the time for it and this is what motivates me. It is this passion that he will need in huge amounts now that another important national task has been thrust onto his lean shoulders: Athletics Kenya has picked him, alongside 2016 London Marathon winner Eliud Kipchoge and 2015 New York Marathon s Stanley Biwott, to fly the national flag at the Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, in August. I am excited by the prospects of racing in the Olympics. I am in the company of a great team of talented individuals and I hope we shall do our country proud. We shall meet as a team and organise our tactics and even if it means sacrificing our individual interests we shall have to do it, if we have to recapture the late Samuel Wanjiru s title he won in 2008.Korir was elected MP in 2013 as an independent candidate. Riding on the back of the projects he had initiated before joining active politics, his well-oiled machine prevailed against the highly favoured Joshua Kuttuny of URP.He had constructed a dispensary in his Biribiriet village, bought an ambulance and provided clean water to the community, as well as educating children through proceeds from his running exploits.One of his brothers died of a snakebite. He died on the way to hospital because hospitals were few and far between. It was in memory of his brother that he constructed a hospital and went a step further to buy an ambulance. He provided clean piped water because he used to get typhoid and clean water is a way of eliminating disease. I ventured into politics while still an active athlete with the intention of transforming the lives of my community, he says.1982: Born in Cherangany, Trans Nzoia county1988: Started school at Biribiriet Primary and later St Joseph's High School, Kitale, where he sat his KCPE in 20002004: Moved to the US, where he joined Murray State University and later transferred the University of Louisville, graduating in 2008 with a degree in Biology2009: Winner, Los Angeles Marathon2012: Winner, Boston Marathon2013: Elected MP Cherangany as an Independent2013: We need to be very aware that this is a sovereign and independent country. We need to have faith in our judicial system. We do not need judges from outside to come and vet our people. It is very hard to vet somebody from outside the country. Anybody can write and send a CV. If you are just vetting somebody by looking at their CV, you do not get a clear indication of who you are vetting. Maybe we are vetting people who do not even exist. There are crooks in the streets of Nairobi who can write CVs and send them to you. We should not bring people here who will come and victimize our people, because they are foreigners. Women were victimized and that was the source of the problem that we are going through right now. We need to take this seriously, and, if we do not, it is going to make our country look bad. 2014: The county governments should be given the powers to control and manage the Aids epidemic because they are closest to the people. They are the ones that know the problems that people are facing. If we create a board here in Nairobi, it will not know what is happening in Cherangany or Kisumu. However, if we have boards in the county governments that are able to take care of the people, then that will be fine. Let us take the money that we want to give the board here to the county governments so that they can take care of their people. Why do we not give the county governments that money because they know the number of people that have HIV in their counties? They will take care of their people and control HIV. That is the best way to manage to the HIV/Aids epidemic. 2016: There was a project that the government was undertaking about the Free Primary Education Connectivity. The government has told us that all primary schools have been connected. There is a scenario in my constituency where the poles are there and there is no power in any primary school. There are poles but no transformers.