He had a glittering career in the Civil Service, starting off as a district officer and rising to the Principal Secretary in charge of Interior in the Jubilee administration.Even after his less-than-ceremonious exit from the plum job, Mutea Iringo's public life is not yet done. He has trained his eyes on politics and says he is determined to sacrifice his time and resources to serve the people of North Imenti.A native of Njukinjiru village in the suburbs of Meru town, Mutea has in recent times been hosting delegations of elders, clergymen and other opinion leaders from North Imenti who are seeking his indulgence as he joins politics.He has close to 30 years experience in the public service. He started off his career as an Assistant Secretary in the Ministry of Local Government in 1987.Once elected he intends to mainly focus on development because the present leadership, and in particular MP Rahim Dawood, is mainly preoccupied with in, his words, noise , demonstrations and empty politics . Show me one development project that Dawood has initiated in North Imenti? he asks cynically.Mutea boasts of a huge exposure having served under the regimes of Daniel arap Moi, Mwai Kibaki and Uhuru Kenyatta. He is full of praise of former North Imenti MP Silas Muriuki (2002-2007), whom he describes as a development conscious person.The former high flying PS has never forgetten the less fortunate in the community, as he built houses for them, uplifted the youth through lobbying for their employment.He has also facilitated rural electrification that saw most homesteads get connected to power in North Imenti.Through his personal initiative, various police posts have been put up across North Imenti and Meru County, something which he says has attracted more investors due to improved security.Mutea left the government early in 2015 after he was suspended by President Uhuru Kenyatta after his name appeared in a report by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission.Before his exit, he had been accused by a section of MPs in the Public Accounts Committee of giving out cash to some members of the PAC to ensure that all adverse mention of him would be expunged from the final report."I did not bribe any MP," he said at that time."I did not do anything wrong for me to think of let alone bribe anyone. My explanation to PAC on confidential expenditure was correct and all the facts were explained to the full extent of the law. All the monies were spent and properly accounted for, according to government regulations."For someone now to claim that I went out of my way to bribe his colleagues to alter a report is, to say the least, preposterous. These allegations are totally unfounded and should be dismissed with the contempt they deserve," said Iringo.1961: Born in Imenti location, Meru County1969: Started formal education and later joined Kaaga Harambee Secondary School for his O- levels and later Kanyakine High School for his A-levels1982: University of Nairobi, graduated in 1985 with a BA degree in Political Science and Public Administration1985: University of Nairobi, MA in International Studies1987: Ministry of Local Government, Assistant Secretary1989: Office of the President, District Officer2001: District Commissioner first served in Bomet, West Pokot and later Marsabit2007: Office of the President headquarters, Senior Deputy Secretary in charge of Security2009: Office of the President, Secretary in charge of Internal Security2012: Ministry of State for Provincial Administration and Internal Security, Permanent Secretary2013: Ministry of State for Defence, Principal Secretary2014: " I was shocked the report by PAC had ignored the submissions I made and, instead, recommended that I should investigated over Sh2.9 billion suspicious expenditure drawn from confidential accounts under the Office of the President. I expressed my surprise with the report as the information I gave was clear, but the outcome was different. After the report came out, I called [Cycile) Mbarire and asked her why the report did not reflect the information I gave to the committee. I was taken aback as the report was criminalising what I did. 2014: Security issues in the country are becoming complicated as criminals use advanced technologies to execute their heinous activities and hence the administrators should always be alert in a bid to check the forces. There are many destructors today that sway the young people and prevent them from achieving their goals. Access to information from the Internet is easy and unrestricted. It is upon our young people to choose right from wrong. Students should work hard and avoid all things that will divert their attention from achieving their goals in life. Schools should be careful since terrorism is secretly being impacted in our children in schools. There is need for inclusive participation of parents, teachers and community in strengthening the safety of the community. Emerging threat in security cannot be dealt with by security officers alone but includes every person in the country. 