On a recent visit to Cambridge, I had the good fortune to be invited to dinner at the family home of a newly found friend in nearby Newmarket. Newmarket is a small town in Suffolk which has the distinction of being the horseracing capital of the United Kingdom. Since times of old, the town has produced internationally acclaimed horses and some of the finest studs are found there. The town has a strong Victorian feel. The Clock Tower in the middle of town unveiled in 1887 to commemorate Queen Victoria s Jubilee, aptly reflects its glorious past. When I got there, I chanced upon a copy of the Newmarket News the local paper. In the Letters section, one resident decried what he described as the death of Newmarket. He wrote that Newmarket was dying at the rate of one shop a month which he attributed to the rising immigrant population at Newmarket. He said that the immigrants (largely Eastern European folk), tend to repatriate their earnings from Newmarket and hardly spend their money there. This, he argued, has led to the death of his beloved town. True to his word, a casual check at the High Street revealed empty ground floor level shops with To Let signs hanging on the front doors. I also saw two shops ran by Polish migrants which serve a vibrant (and patriotic) Polish clientele most of whom work low-level jobs in Newmarket. These shops sell goods exclusively sourced from Poland and sent to England under preferential terms and whose profits are repatriated. There was also one Muslim-owned shop frequented by the rising Muslim migrants who also recently established a Mosque. This specific shop offered money transfer services and while they stocked goods from the Middle East and as far as India and Pakistan, it was the money transfer that seemed to keep them in business. In my brief stay in Newmarket, I could not help but connect with the feelings of the concerned resident. The situation is replicated in many towns across the UK. There are now an estimated three million European residents in the UK forming about 5% of the population not counting non-EU migrants. Most of them have families abroad and repatriate large amounts to their kith and kin. Britain is also home to second or third generation Asian, Afro-Caribbean, West African and other remnants of empire. Take the tube in London and listen to the languages spoken and the races represented. You will be forgiven if you wonder whether you are actually in England. The cultural impact of immigration has left the average Briton feeling lost in his own country and their anger was pointed at the EU.When British Prime Minister Edward Heath signed the papers to put the United Kingdom to the Common Market in January 1973, current Premier David Cameron was a kid, and he probably gave the momentous event the fleeting attention of a nine-year old. Joining the EU or Common Market as it was known, was the culmination of long diplomatic overtures to sceptical United Kingdom that feared many things some of which would return four decades later to hound it out of the bloc. Back in 1950, France and Germany came together to draw plans to regulate their coal and steel industries reeling from post-War uncertainties. They formed what was known as the European Coal and Steel Community, Britain was invited but refused to join. In 1957 the ECSC signed the Treaty of Rome which formed the European Economic Community (EEC). This body aimed at gradually eliminating import quotas, duties and placing a common tariff for exports to member nations which again excluded the UK. Think of frustration at Tanzanian reluctance with the EAU, and you get the feeling that consenting Europeans have had with the UK. They eventually joined the last of the major European powers to do so and now they are the first to leave. The referendum on June 23 that led to a vote to leave the EU, is now threatening to unravel the United Kingdom itself with Scotland thinking of going independent and Northern Ireland thinking of (re)joining Ireland. If these were to happen, then the global influence of England (and Wales) will be greatly diminished. Other than these, there is also the possibility of the EU itself unravelling. Far-right parties calling for similar referenda in their own countries. There is now talk of Frexit (French Exit) and Italexit (Italy Exit) and more. Markets across the world reacted sharply and the pound fell to levels against the dollar last seen three decades ago. There are those who have signing a petition to have the whole thing reversed, and is now called Bregret. The question however remains, why exactly did it come to this? There are many reasons that have been fronted for this but the most important of them immigration.You may ask what is so attractive about England to the world. London is still one of the major financial centres of the world with large banking, insurance and maritime operations based there. It s efficient transport system and magnificent facilities are also very attractive to migrants. Besides, the National Health Service which provides free medical services also adds to the migration pressure as it accounts for a good portion of medical migration or medical tourism. London is indeed a tourist paradise. Every turn you make you come face to face with history and a rich heritage that dates back a thousand years. Tourists are everywhere and indeed some decide that they don t want to go back home. England s excellent educational facilities are undisputable and those who can afford private education send their kids there but even those who can t, can still enjoy great education from the state schools (free). English as a global language is an attractive medium of instruction and is partly responsible for attracting migrants who want to be proficient in the language so as to be globally competitive. Political stability and low crime levels also make the UK very attractive. Tax havens make the UK a destination of both legitimate and ill-gotten wealth and a good portion ends up in its prime properties putting pressure on average Britons. I read about how a teacher now cannot afford to live in London, pushed out by rising property prices. Another very attractive thing about the UK is the welfare system with housing and money provided for those who can t find a job or for some reason are unable to work. The hardworking British people watch with deep resentment as (some) sponging EU nationals take advantage of the system fully protected by EU rules. It is like cooking a good meal for your kids then the neighbourhood association says the neighbour s kids should also come to your house and eat your food as well. David Cameron proposed that new migrants would only qualify for benefits after contributing to the system for at least four years.The flip side of the story is that most immigrants tend to be focussed, hardworking people who will not choose jobs, will work long hours and they do pay their taxes contributing a sizeable chunk to the exchequer. With those qualities, many of them end up living the British dream better or sooner than many Britons which again makes them the target of envious hate particularly by struggling Britons. The average Briton expects a foreigner to remain in their country and not so many of them have bothered to leave for continental Europe. There are those who have been attracted to Spain by the sun. I remember telling a number of friends that I would return home to Kenya and they seemed to be shocked that I was actually thinking of going back!In the last few months, hundreds of thousands of Middle-Eastern refugees reached European shores mainly in rickety boats. The unfolding humanitarian crisis forced the EU to make clumsy decisions including a deal with Turkey to take in the bulk of the refugees if only to buy time as they try to find a more lasting solution. More than a million refugees found their way into Europe while others remain in holding camps in Turkey and Greece. Far right parties across Europe opposed to migration roundly condemned the EU for the way the matter was handled. Even here in Kenya, there was anger at the Turkey deal where the EU was paying colossal sums ignoring the plight of Kenya which is holding a huge refugee population that would otherwise have found their way to Europe. They also cut funding to the Amisom operation which is trying to stabilize Somalia from where the bulk of Kenya s refugees are sourced. The unfolding refugee situation in Europe was closely followed with great apprehension in Britain first by those concerned that more immigrants are coming and then by those concerned about the Islamization of Europe. Islamophobia is alive and well in Britain. They are also not to blame entirely. The Paris and Brussels attacks motivated by Islamists has put the fear of Islam in the heart many British people who already have a poor opinion on Religion. Besides, a number of terror and foiled terror incidents in London have been linked to Islamists. I remember once attending a church service in Cambridge and two men came in and sat at the back pew. They wore their taqiyah (cap), white robe, sandals and had long bushy beards associated with (traditional) Muslim men. Soon, heads were turning to steal nervous glances at them. After about 20 minutes, they just stood and walked away possibly feeling the unease they were causing. After the service many wondered if they were on a survey mission with plans to return with bombs! Nobody thought that they could have just been a couple of curious Muslims out to see what goes on inside a church. The EU in short urgently needs reforms if it hopes to remain with the members left. Much of the resentment to the body stems from the fact that unelected bureaucrats in Brussels are largely responsible for policy that binds member states into specific actions often against their national interests. In Britain, far right UKIP (United Kingdom Independent Party) found its voice from the unfolding refugee crisis and the open doors policy which they blamed for the ever increasing inward migration. It stepped up pressure for Britain to exit the EU and when the vote went their way, they have dubbed June 23 as Independence Day. It remains to be seen if they will make it a national holiday. The Tories on the other hand were heavily split on Brexit as were Labour. Only the Scots seemed to have been united and we are possibly going to see Scotexit or Irexit. When David Cameron called for the referendum, he had hoped to use it to quieten the dissenting voices but instead it appears that he misread the pie and bit more than he could chew. Twitter @godfreysang