Shujaa have been drawn against Portugal, Cape Warriors and Rwanda in Pool A of the Safari Sevens this Saturday at the Kasarani Stadium,Shujaa, who are last year s runners up will open their campaign against minnows Rwanda , followed by a tie against Cape Warriors of South Africa before wrapping up against Portugal in their final pool game on Saturday.Defending champions Samurai are in Pool C and take on Zimbabwe, Morocco and Red Wailers. England Saxons face Western Province, National series sevens champions Homeboyz and Belhar Rockets in Pool B . The top two teams from each pool and the two best losers qualify for the Main Cup quarterfinals slated for Sunday. In a break from tradition, the tournament will be a 12-team event unlike the previous years where it has been a sixteen-team tournament due to the Africa Cup Sevens matches event being played on Friday and Saturday. Tournament director Godwin Karuga said they have tried to invite core teams in the World Sevens series like Argentina, Japan, USA and Samoa to no avail with the teams preferring to rest and prepare for the start of the World series in December. It s very difficult to invite teams right now considering most of them have just returned from the Olympic Games. We sent out invites but the response we got was that they are a break, added Karuga.He, however, said he expects a competitive tournament with lots of surprises. We have formidable outfits like Samurai, England Saxons, Zimbabwe and Western Province from South Africa and therefore, we expect a good tournament.Karuga said preparations for the event were almost complete and the tournament will have adequate security. Security is paramount and this being big venue, we have reassurances from the various agencies that it will be safe and I am asking fans to turn up in large numbers, he noted. There will be village and entertainment for fans and revelers for the three days of action.Elsewhere, six Kenyan players will feature for Red Wailers in the tournament that starts on Saturday. They are KCB s Martin Owila, Felix Ayange (Quins), Malik Habil (Kabras) Mohammed Omollo (Impala), Oscar Dennis (Nondies) and Elton Isiaho. Red Wailers will be coached by Andrew Curtain with Ben Collin set to be the team physiotherapist. Kabras Sugar s Andrew John will be the strength and conditioning coach. English stars Christopher Thomas, Rober William Parker, Adam Belala, Lewis Oliver and Leon James are the other players included.