If you are some kind of senior banker and are reading this, let me ask you: Did you really imagine that those high interest rates you were charging on loans would continue indefinitely?For the truth is that the interest rates charged by Kenyan banks should never at any point have risen that high. The banks are of course well within their rights to charge as much as they can get away with. But there was some fundamental anomaly in all this.Just as Kenya used to be referred to (before we lost our good name in the post-election violence of 2008 ) as an island of stability in a volatile region , so too has it been true that Kenya has been an island of high interest rates in a world awash in cheap money .By cheap money I mean low interest rates. And in any of the advanced economies of Western Europe, North America, and above all in Japan, double-digit interest rates are a mythical beast. They simply do not exist. And they have not existed for decades.If you have any family, or friends, who are part of the Kenyan diaspora, ask them how much they pay as interest on a mortgage, if they have one. Chances are it is below five per cent.So unlike Kenyan mortgages, which are sometimes offered at a very special low rate of 19 per cent , the interest rates in such advanced nations are very affordable. Which is not to say that everybody qualifies for them. But for those who do, the mark of many advanced economies is that the decision to buy or rent is merely a lifestyle choice. As a general rule, outside of state-subsidised housing, any house you can afford to rent, you can also afford to buy.While for those of us here in Kenya - well, let me just quote from a column published in this paper a few years ago, written by a Quantity Surveyor: Consider a successful middle class couple: Both hold well-paying jobs in stable firms, their children attend private schools and the family resides in a rented apartment in one of the better suburbs of Nairobi say, Brookside Drive in Westlands.Assume that such a family currently pays a monthly rent of Sh80,000 for their three-bedroom apartment. This, simply put, is the cost of putting a roof over the heads of the family. Assuming that they are able to raise this amount by 50 per cent if it is converted into a mortgage, they would then have a budget of Sh120,000 to service monthly mortgage payments. This limits the amount that they can borrow over a 20-year repayment period, at a fixed interest rate of 18 per cent per annum to Sh7,750,000.The foregoing means that they cannot afford to purchase an apartment within the same area that they live in. Apartments there cost over Sh16 million and borrowing 90 per cent of the purchase price under the same terms would attract mortgage repayments of over Sh222,000 per month. Options open to them are apartments or houses in the less costly peri-urban areas such as Mlolongo or Kitengela... But let us turn back to those juicy profits banks were making as a by-product of failures in government policy.Those days are now over; this being best illustrated by the roughly Sh45 billion drop in share value reported by Kenyan banks in just one day after the announcement was made of the new regulations to govern interest rates.If you have ever wondered what capital flight looks like, now you know.I read a while back that Kenya had temporarily overtaken South Africa as the African country that received the largest amount of foreign direct investment. At that time, I had vaguely wondered how this was possible, and where all this money invested within our borders was going.Well, now we can see where at least part of this FDI went: Not into any long-term structural investment, but speculative investment in Kenya s highly profitable banking sector.Which of course is no longer going to be that profitable, amply illustrating one of the iron laws of economics, as of life - what goes up must come down.