Kisumu Governor Jack Ranguma s strong political display during the two days' ODM celebrations in the county has sent rivals back to the drawing board.The Governor had 23 Prado vehicles branded with his portrait and that of the party leader Raila Odinga.More on this: ODM 'capable of generating income' for rallies, says RangumaHe also had two branded trucks, as well as posters and banners featuring him, Raila and Joho. These were used to popularise ODM during the roadshow and rally at Kirembe grounds on Saturday.[VIDEO] Joho prepares for Kisumu rallies with 100 ODM-branded vehiclesSome of the Prado vehicles branded by Kisumu Governor Jack Ranguma during Kirembe grounds rally on October 1, 2016. /MAURICE ALALRanguma also actively mobilised residents to turn out in large numbers for the event. He honoured his promise to give Sh1 million to the ward which registered the highest number of voters in the county during the mass voter registration in February 2016.He handed over the cheque to deputy party leader Hassan Joho and other Kisumu ODM officials. Apart from that, Ranguma engaged the ODM Kisumu branch and the party youths in preparation for the rally and provided additional security to the visitors.More on this: Joho 'determined to get Raila 12 million votes' from ODM strongholdsThe closeness between the Kisumu Governor and Joho is seen as a threat to rivals. The two are said to have jointly funded ODM's weekend events in Kisumu.Among those challenging Ranguma for the governor's seat are area Senator Anyang Nyong o, deputy governor Ruth Odinga and businessman Hezron McObewa.Architect Christopher Ondiek, David Wayiera, a banker, UN WFP employee Asaka Nyangara, former lecturer Gordon Okumu and surgeon James Obondi have also declared interest.McObewa and Ondiek also erected banners with their portrait and that of Raila along Kisumu -Nairobi road and Kisumu- Busia road to market popularize themselves. McObewa also had branded vehicles including V8 Land cruisers. He said besides eying Kisumu governor seat, he was focused in ensuring Raila win presidency.Also read: Ranguma discriminating against Kisumu youths, aspirant saysWhen Joho paid a courtesy call in Ranguma s office on Saturday, he hailed the governor for his development track record. I want to congratulate Governor Ranguma for the efforts he has put in improving the lives of the people of Kisumu, Joho later posted in his official page.Joho urged Kisumu politicians to support Ranguma in his efforts to realise his development agenda.On Friday evening, Joho, who was received by Ranguma at Kisumu International Airport, received heroic reception. The two went on to led a road show with 100-ODM branded vehicles within the city.The two governors alongside their counterparts Cyprian Awiti (Homa Bay), Cornel Rasanga (Siaya) and Okoth Obado (Migori) led a delegates conference at CITAM hall to lay strategies to strengthen the party within the grassroots. Most of the aspirants and incumbent elected leaders had banners, portraits and branded vehicles to market their agenda during the rally.