From looking after the family s livestock, raising his own fee to being detained just after the infamous 1984 Wagalla massacre of 1984, Abass Sheikh Mohammed has seen it all.His most painful moment in his life was during the Wagalla massacre of 1984.Popularly known as Abass KK (origin not exactly known) was then a civil servant in the ministry of livestock when the massacre took place. I was implicated because of my clan. I spent one night in the incarceration camp. I saw the ugly and horrifying killings of my people. That was the darkest moment of my life, says the Wajir East MP. Much as I feel that am a Kenya citizen by right, those memories evoke bitterness towards my country. Abbas, 58, and a father of five had grown up in this region under conditions of extreme poverty and depraviation. I used to look after livestock to raise school fees during his school holidays. But with determined parents, they were able to see me through it, he said.And due to the importance livestock played in his life, the MP would later pursue a career in enhancing the welfare of livestock keepers. While I worked in the livestock sector, I felt the need to champion the rights of my people, whose economic mainstay is pegged on livestock keeping. He regrets that the economic potential has not fully been tapped.External market for livestock and livestock products was key, with ready markets in Mauritius, South Africa and Egypt and other Middle Eastern countries. Much has been achieved so far, he said.The region has traditionally lagged behind in education. This is compounded further by the exit of non-local teachers due to insecurity. So the MP has embarked on affirmative approach to improve the situation. I have prioritised learning environment for students and teaching staff. Students were learning under trees, many dropped out of schools due to lack of fees, he said.Out of 29 primary schools in his constituency, all have improved quality learning environment and better infrastructure. At one time during my meet-the-people tour, I met two newly posted non-local teachers. They were spending nights in a classroom and would then pick their beddings and store them during the day when students come for studies. That was distressing for me. He subsequently embarked on building houses for all teachers in rural schools in his constituency.A lifetime of service in the livestock sector1958: Born in Wajir district. He thereafter attended Wajir Primary school, Mandera secondary school where he did his O level exams. He later enrolled at Egerton university for a Diploma in Livestock Economics. He was later employed at the Ministry of Agriculture and livestock. He returned to Egerton University for his undergraduate studied where he obtained a degree in Natural Resource Management. He has also worked as regional Manager, Agricultural Finance Corporation for 7 years.He later joined Kenya Livestock Marketing Council as CEO where he served for 10 years.2013: Elected Wajir East MP on URP ticket.Quotes2015: This country is facing floods. All these things are as a result of man s activities. This policy paper will help us do a little bit of conservation. We need to emphasize the importance of conserving our environment even within our youth. We need to educate them on environmental issues. We can do this by having in place a school curriculum. There is a lot of pollution in Nairobi and its environs. It is high time the government taxed higher those industries that emit pollution. There is also desertification. We need to have a policy in place that will support tree planting. Much of our land is now bare, but we could reclaim it for farming. 2016: It is beyond anybody's reasoning that village elders and wazees play a critical role in the society's setup. These are the people who have a lot of knowledge, historical knowledge and memories. They keep a lot of memories for the society and the growing youth. The same elders play a big role in counselling the youth and the middle-aged persons in society. They also play a great role in dispute resolution. If it were not for the elders within the society, may things would have gone wrong. As the saying goes, things do not go wrong where elders are . Now that we have new Acts which are under the counties in the new Constitution, the village elders are recognised. They are part of the establishment of the county administrative units. It is high time these village elders and the society elders are recognised for their role. 