South Sudan have entered two teams in the FIBA Zone Five club championship in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, starting tomorrow.The new entrants are National Engineering and Citizen. Seventeen clubs have confirmed participation in the tournament whose winners will represent the region in the Africa championship later in the year.They are: Kenya Ulinzi, United States International University (men), Kenya Ports Authority (women); Uganda City Oilers, UCU Canons (men); Kampala City Council Authority, Leopards, UCU Lady Canons ( women); Rwanda Espoir, Patriots (men); Ubumbwe, BBC ( women); Tanzania ABC, Savio, JKT and Don Bosco.Meanwhile, champions Ulinzi Warriors warmed up for the Dar show with a 69-39 win over Strathmore University in a Premier League clash at Nyayo Stadium. Eric Mutoro top-scored for Warriors with 20 points. Women champions USIU Flames who are also headed to Tanzania, felled Eagle Wings 49-42 as Georgia Odhiambo bagged 15 points. Samba Mjomba buried 14 points to lift Equity Bank to an easy 60-43 win over Strathmore University Swords . Sarah Wakanyi had 10 for the students.Co-operative Bank of Kenya crushed KU Oryx 46-25 while Zetech University beat Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology (JKuat) 70-34. In Other matches, Kenya Airports Authority clobbered Eldonets 63-45, Kenyatta University Pirates suffered a 44-52 loss to visiting Kisumu Lakeside while Don Bosco preyed on USIU, winning 53-48.Elsewhere former national champions Co-operative Bank of Kenya play Blades in a top Premier League clash at the Nyayo National Stadium gymnasium this weekend.The bankers have had a rough year where they have blown hot and cold and with the play offs approaching, they must start to stamp their authority in some of these matches.Thunder who had a positive result in Mombasa will lock horns against Blades in what will be a fiercely contested show. Griffin Ligare and Kevin Chogo are Thunder s leading lights.At the Menengai High school courts in Nakuru, local lads Nakuru Club who are having a harrowing year losing game after game host Lions. They lost 66-35 to national champions Ulinzi Warriors.Co-op Bank have a date with Masaku Sparks in what on paper looks a closely fought match up. Co-op are confident after they easily trounced Kenyatta University Oryx 46-25.High riding Equity Bank confront KU side in a game the Hawks are favoured to win. The bankers whipped Strathmore University 60-43 hands down as Samba Mjomba showed class. Oryx who suffered another 37-33 loss to Eagle Wings in a hard fought game they gave their all will also come face to face with Sprite Storms led by ex national team captain Angela Luchivya.Other games in Nakuru will see Egerton University play Daystar University and Zetech University while the men play meet Zetech University