Security officials have allayed social media reports that DP William Ruto s security detail was involved in the shooting of two women in Kisii on Thursday evening.Area chief Brian Mose said one stray bullet hit the women as they sold vegetables at Daraja Mbili market, but how they were both killed is still a mystery.Kisii county Commissioner Kula Hache said the policemen who were involved were part of the Gesonso Quick Response Team, and were on regular patrol. The DP s security detail was operating between Gusii Stadium and Kisii Sports Club. At no time did the officers go to Daraja Mbili market," she said. "Those involved are our officers and they will be held responsible as individuals."Deputy Governor Joash Maangi said: Social media is awash with reports that Ruto s security was involved but the reports are false and malicious. Let us stop spreading rumours. The law will take its natural cause and action will be taken. I assure the public that something is being done. Allow investigative agencies to do their job."He and Hache addressed journalists at Kisii county government offices after holding a special security meeting on Friday.Read: One stray bullet killed two women in Kisii - police reportThe two assured the public that the officer who committed the crime will be punished. Ten AP officers have recorded statements so far. We have begun investigations and the culpable officer will be charged in court. A case file has already been identified. We appeal to witnesses and affected families to record statements with police, said Hache.Terming the incident unfortunate, the officials condoled with the families of the women who were identified as 21-year old Edna Bosibori and Irene Kerubo, 36Hache said the shooting resulted from a confrontation between APs and boda boda operators.The killings sparked riots in Kisii town for the better part of the night and led to the destruction of property of unknown value.Mobs stormed Kisii town s central business district, vandalising shops and stealing.At Kisii bus park, the mob stormed a restaurant and ate all the food before heading to Kisii town where they smashed the windows of several buildings.They were repulsed by police officers who shot several times in the air and lobbed teargas canisters.