She was out with friends, chatting up a storm at a Manhattan nightspot, when she felt fingers creep up her miniskirt, slide up her inner thigh and then touch her vagina through her panties.Kristin Anderson, 46, is the seventh woman in two days to come forward and claim that the man who touched her was none other than Donald Trump, she revealed in an explosive interview in the Washington Post. Anderson, now a wedding photographer based in southern California, said the incident took place in the early 1990s when she was in her early twenties and an aspiring model. She was sitting on a red velvet couch in the nightclub talking to friends, when she felt a hand slide up her inner thigh and touch her genitals, she told the newspaper.Anderson said she recognized her assailant as Trump, who was by then famous and a well-known figure on the New York club scene.'He was so distinctive looking - with the hair and the eyebrows. I mean, nobody else has those eyebrows,' she told the Washington Post. Anderson did not approach the Post she was contacted by a reporter at the newspaper who heard her story from someone who knew about it. She then spent several days deciding on whether to go public. She also appeared on CNN on Friday night, and spoke with Anderson Cooper about her allegations.She said she did not saying anything at the time because she did not think anyone would believe her."Who am I going to tell. The club manager, "Donald Trump put his hand up my skirt",' she said. "They will be like "yeah", and they will go to him and go did you do this? And he will say no. And where do we go from there? "It is kind of like where we are now. He's saying no. And a tonne of women saying yes."She went on in the interview to claim she believes there are many more women who have allegedly been assaulted or touched inappropriately by Trump."More will come out. Because if this was that nonchalant there is no way he didn't to it many other people," Anderson said."There are probably a lot more women and you know it and I know it and they all know it. So just come clean and just say - you know, apologize. Just come clean.' Trump has denied the allegations of all the women who have accused him. The claims have rocked his campaign just weeks before the November 8 presidential election.