NAIROBI county secretary Robert Ayisi seems to be going through tough times at City Hall, with his new measures to curb revenue leakages and end corruption. A nominated MCA, acting as a godfather to a contractor, recently threw documents at him after he declined to approve payment to the supplier. Ayisi questioned the papers' authenticity. The ODM MCA is now planning to impeach him.***STILL on Nairobi county, a senior officer in the parking department, who was recently reinstated after a sacking linked to corruption, is the talk of the town at City Hall. The man is bragging in City Hall corridors how he bribed senior officers to get his job back. He says he has 3,500 parking slots in the CBD in his name and rakes in millions of shillings from them.********A wealthy senator from Eastern Kenya was on Friday lambasted by the President at State House, Nairobi, when he attended the award of charters to eight universities. "I'm told that when I want to develop your county you're the one causing trouble there," the President said, when the senator moved to shake his hand. Officials say the senator was left tongue-tied. He was so shaken he could not gather the strength to respond to the President. The senator has long been accused of trying to frustrate his governor's development agenda. He was recently involved in an embarrassing, near-fistfight with another politician from the county. ****CORRIDORS has it that elected leaders who defected during the Jubilee Party launch but found a hostile reception back home have been asked to feel free to go back to the opposition. A senior Jubilee official was overheard bragging at a Kilimani restaurant that the ruling coalition will easily fund them to win nominations and the coming elections. The official said they are ready to bankroll those handling nominations within the opposition parties to ensure that "friendly" politicians win. He went ahead to explain that Jubilee is keen to have the defectors win in whichever party since it will be easy to work with them after the elections - to frustrate the opposition in and outside Parliament.*****A Ugandan Cabinet minister is in trouble for failing to authorise Sh15.6 billion ($156 million) payment to a Kenyan contractor who supplied CCTV equipment to the government. The little-known contractor, named as Mama Flora Njeri, also accuses a Somali-owned, rival Kenyan company called Tica-In of blocking her payment by claiming that she supplied low-quality equipment. The fight has attracted the attention of the World Bank, which sponsored the programme. Ugandan media reported the minister is now in trouble for annoying donors - when the country needs them most.