Hull Vs Arsenal Today 5pmMy Prediction: The Tigers 1-3 The GunnersHull City started the season on a high beating defending champions Leicester City on opening day. They continued with their good food overcoming Swansea to maintain a 100 per cent start to the season after two games. But the fairy tale ended in such painful circumstances. They were drawing 0-0 with Man United before Marcus Rashford scored a 92nd minute winner for the Old Trafford outfit. That was painful and must have dented their confidence. The fact that they could only manage a 1-1 draw against Burnley last weekend shows that the dream has indeed ended and it will only get worse today. Arsenal may be somewhat struggling based on how quickly we conceded in Paris the other day but at least we have learnt to grind out results! Victories over Watford and Southampton has seen us climb up the standings and just two points off the top four. This will not be an easy game and I hope the fellas have learned that when the whistle blows; it s game time; not time to settle in. I am confident that our boys will begin to gel as they looked all over the place midweek. Tough but possible to get all three points here. Manchester City Vs Bournemouth Today 5pmMy Prediction: The Citizens 4-0 BournemouthMan City are the inform team right now. Top of the league and scoring at pleasure. Infact they are the only team will a 100% record after four matches. Everyone thought that the Kun Aguero s absence would affect them but clearly as they showed at Old Trafford last weekend; they do not lack goal scorers. Or Pep Guardiola is simply a tactical genious! A bit of both I guess. Bournemouth are in trouble and should really just ask to sit out the game. Last weekend they did beat West Brom but I don t believe they have it in them to even get a point from City. Jack Wilshere was on the bench for Bournemouth last weekend although he came on in the second half. Perhaps they should maximize on his profile note not experience profile; to try and intimidate City players. Okay that sounds funny even to me. I m trying to give Bournemouth a glimmer of hope but failing miserably.Watford Vs Manchester United Sunday 2pmMy Prediction: Watford 1-3 The Red DevilsOh Manchester United! Manager Jose Mourinho has an excuse for everything and I bet he ll have an excuse for today. I can t believe he insists that playing Europa League encourages fixture congestion when he is playing on Sunday while other teams played on Tuesday and Wednesday. Not to mention English teams have been playing in Europa for decades. He has lost two on the trot and both were matches where United were heavily favoured to win. Again they are heavily favoured to beat Watford today but with their superstars now underperforming; who knows! Watford have been pretty bad this term so Mourinho may just gain back some pride in this game. I have realized however that when I back Man United to win, they never do. But this one; I think they ll have the strength to come through especially since Wayne Rooney has rested for an entire week and the superstars need to restore some pride.