Two governors and several MPs yesterday stormed Moi University in Eldoret to stop newly appointed acting Vice Chancellor Professor Laban Ayiro from taking over.Education CS Fred Matiang i appointed Ayiro to replace outgoing VC Professor Richard Mibey in an acting capacity. Prof Ayiro will act for a period of three months until a substantive VC is appointed, Matiang i said in a letter sent to the Moi University Council chairman Prof Jenasio Kinyamario. Governors Jackson Mandago (Uasin Gishu) and Alex Tolgos (Elgeyo Marakwet) and the MPs rejected the appointment. Mandago said they want Professor Isaac Kosgey to take over. He said they will stop the university s graduation ceremony on Friday if Kosgey is not installed. We have told Matiangi to immediately release his appointment letter, Mandago said. The MPs included Oscar Sudi (Kapseret), Sila Tiren (Moiben), James Bett (Kesses). Uasin Gishu assembly speaker Isaac Terer was also present. We will cut all trees, block roads and ensure there is no graduation, Sudi said. He said Matiangi is opposed to having a Kalenjin take over. They wait when DP William Ruto is out of the country so they mess with our university. We will not accept that, Sudi said. The leaders said Kosgey was tops during interviews and he deserves to get the job. He took part in such an interview at Egerton where he was second and the winner was given the job. We wonder why he is being blocked after topping during interviews here, Mandago said. Earlier, the leaders met with Ayiro and Kinyamario. They warned Ayiro not to enter the VC s office. They also demanded 3,500 casuals be confirmed.Nandi Senator Stephen Sang and MPs Alfred Keter (Nandi Hills) and Kirwa Bittok (Mosop) backed their colleagues. They gave Matiang i 24 hours to appoint a substantive VC. They spoke at the Parliament Buildings yesterday.Ayiro was to take over from Prof Mibey who retired last Monday after being at the helm for 10 years. There has been controversy over the appointment of a new CEO.A month ago, Mibey went on terminal leave but returned after two weeks under unclear circumstances. This led to staff protests.Kinyamario said a new VC will be appointed in line with the laws governing the university. The council carried out interviews to fill the position and three names were forwarded to Matiang i so he could choose one.However, sources say political interests have delayed the appointment, with politicians from the North Rift and South Rift rooting for their own .