Deputy President William Ruto was recently in a diplomatic mission to Tanzania to try and convince them to put pen to paper the Economic Partnership Agreement with the European Union. The last time, the Tanzanians pushed it away blaming their reluctance to sign on among other things Brexit. Brexit is increasingly becoming an ambiguous term because nobody really knows when it will happen, how it will happen and more so, its true impact if it happens. The Japanese have recently given the British a not-so-rosy picture of things should they step out of the EU. According to the Guardian, the Japanese are asking the British to negotiate a deal with the EU which includes unrestricted access to the single market, remaining in the Customs Union and allowing free flow of workers. In short, kill Brexit. Theresa May will have to listen because Japanese firms in Britain employ well over 140,000 people. The reluctance of Tanzania in signing the EPA is, in my opinion, the denouement of the death of the East Africa Community. The EAC failing to have a common position on a matter that potentially involves huge losses to one partner State calls to question the relevance of being in such an organization. Even in January 2017 which is the new date of signing the EPA, there is no evidence or guarantee that Tanzania will sign. Being members of the East Africa Community, the WTO rules bar Kenya from going it alone with the EU. This is an extraordinarily precarious situation that Kenya finds itself. If indeed Tanzania fails to sign, then Kenya s goose is cooked as it will not be able to proceed on its own. And Tanzania knows it. As a Least Developed Nation , she can still access the European Market on preferential terms (under the Everything But Arms arrangement) while at the same time restricting its market to European goods. However, the fact that Kenya is no longer a Least Developed Nation means that we must pay the taxes if we don t sign up. Former Tanzania President Benjamin Mkapa in a recent publication stated that Tanzania would not sign the EPA because it was bad, not just for Tanzania but for Kenya as well. While acknowledging that indeed Kenya stands to lose, he says it would not be so much in his calculations about $100m annually. He clearly did not understand, that it is not the amount of money but the long-term implications of taxation however small. Taxation has the undesirable effect of making Kenya a poor investment destination. It also has the potential of initiating capital flight and the consequential losses of jobs would be felt across the entire economy and not just Kenya s but the region s as well (thereby affecting Tanzania). In terms of numbers, the five EAC member states exported to Europe $2.9 billion last year while importing $4,5 billion. Half of that was exported by Kenya (50.87%) and it also imported 54.56% of all regional imports compared with Tanzania at 26.01% while exporting 26.63%. Tanzania s figures will not likely to change in the short term perhaps even improve if they do not sign the EPA. Kenya s numbers however, will definitely go south soon as taxation kicks in. The EU accounts for 31% of all Kenyan exports globally and this makes it a very important market. My point however is that the founding fathers of the EAC envisioned a state of interdependence between the East African nations. Interdependence has since been replaced by para-dependence where the prefix para- means along with, beside. The term means that we are all virtually in a state of parallel competition. The way Tanzania celebrated Uganda s decision to use its territory over Kenya in exporting its oil shows how para-dependence is the new paradigm in the EAC. Even Rwanda is going with Tanzania on another crucial infrastructural project despite Kenya having poured billions of dollars on a railway that had Rwanda in mind during inception. As the initial EAC enters its 50th year next June, it is probably time to reflect how far we have deviated from the mind of the founding fathers and whether Kenya still needs this body.