Election campaign season is already here 10 months to the scheduled election date. The political parties appear to be concentrating on the swing vote areas of the Coast, Western, Kisii, Narok and Kajiado. The Cord campaign teams, however, appear to be operating in a disjointed and severely uncoordinated manner. Indeed, on many occasions, Cord members appear to be acting in opposition, or contrary to one another.Cord co-principal Kalonzo Musyoka has been at the Coast drumming up support for the Wiper Party s governor candidate Senator Hassan Omar, who intends to oppose incumbent Governor Hassan Joho of ODM. Raila Odinga meanwhile, is camping in the Western and Trans-Nzoia regions, known Ford-Kenya turf, seeking support for ODM candidates. Moses Wetang ula is soon expected to be at the Coast to pitch for Ford-Kenya, obviously in opposition to Wiper and ODM.The opposition coalition is acting like the proverbial dog that when shot in the stomach promptly proceeded to eat its own intestines. More disturbing is how these three seasoned politicians, a former Vice President, former Prime Minister and former Foreign minister (two of them lawyers and an engineer) can fail to sit at a round table and agree on basic campaign modus operandi.The image they are projecting, whether wittingly or unwittingly, is one lacking in vision, cohesion and deeply conflicted. Their pronouncements are beginning to resemble those of a veritable Tower of Babel.That the ODM leader is making his fourth stab at the presidency in a team whose pistons do not and cannot fire in unison is perhaps the biggest tragedy of our times. A lot of time, energy and political experience will have been expended and wasted in a useless and gainless enterprise.The ODM leader recently revealed the party s blue-eyed boy in Governor Hassan Joho. He hosted ODM s 10th Anniversary celebrations in Mombasa, a political rally in Nairobi and another in Kisumu at the weekend.MPs at the Kisumu rally proposed that he becomes Raila s running mate. However, Raila skilfully skirted the proposal, saying the Cord parties would jointly elect their presidential flagbearer(s). It is no secret, however, that the young Joho is ambitious and aspires for Deputy President. He is also rumoured to be financially well-endowed. He maybe the ODM leader s secret weapon as he could act as a bulwark against Jubilee s William Ruto and the Cord co-principals. His youth is expected to match the Deputy President s indefatigable energy, whilst at the same time, neutralising the influence of the co-principals nationally as the Coast has more registered voters than Lower Eastern and Bungoma combined.Joho s entrance at this stage in our history is, however, too little too late. There is nothing he can do to alter the political arena in the interim period, even if this development has placed Wetang ula and Kalonzo in panic mode and they are now desperately attempting to re-assert themselves individually. The brave faces being displayed by Cord leaders are a far cry from reality. They have dug themselves into a deep, dark pit.The UhuRuto campaign team is operating as a highly efficient well-oiled machine. It is focussed on its targets and mission and has a clear roadmap of where it is and where it is headed. For UhuRuto, it is not a game of chance or guesswork. It has sufficient funds and personnel to launch Kenya s finest campaign ever.That their would-be nemeses ODM or Cord are in a serious political crisis is a welcome bonus as the possibility of resolving their differences within the intervening period to the election are close to nil. The confusion in the opposition is also causing a confidence crisis amongst loyal voters. This, combined with our traditional high percentage of undecided voters, creates a huge constituency of spill-over votes that could benefit both Jubilee and the Amani Coalition.