He was only two years from University, unmarried and financially challenged when he decided to go full throttle into politics.The dinner party Nathaniel Nganga organised to raise funds for his campaigns only raised Sh100,000.To navigate through the usually murky waters of political competition which had within it experienced politicians and well moneyed persons, he had to be smart. I knew very well it was not going to be easy to get the nomination certificate in the major political parties because I felt that they were already divided out, Nganga, the Deputy Speaker at Machakos County Assembly says.Given this reality, he had to be smart; first, not to use the giant political parties in the region since they ever guaranteed him the highly prized nomination certificate.With that in mind, he settled for Narc Kenya aware of the uphill task that lay ahead.As if not enough, he also had to learn the hard way what it meant by joining politics without a family. At first I never thought of it as challenge but it turned out to be among the prime challenges, he says, pointing out that his opponents used to create an impression he was too young to lead.The politician, popularly known as Nganga wa Ngangani is a firm believer of devolution, but he is disappointed with the manner governors have been implementing it. Devolution is the sure way to the future of this country but the biggest problem we have is that it has been held hostage by individuals who see themselves as imperial governors. He regrets the national government through the Intergovernmental Budget and Economic Council (IBEC) has been misled to believe that the problem with devolution is the assemblies.Because of this, the government has been forced to collaborate with the governors to muzzle the county assemblies. This has killed the oversight arm in the counties making the Governors do whatever they want and get away with it, he says.He says that there was need to empower the county assemblies so that that they can stand up to the executive if the dream of devolution is to be achieved.Nganga says governors do not respect separation of powers between the two arms. This is the reason behind conflicts between governors and the MCAs.********* 1987: Born in Ikombe Location, Machakos County1992: Started School at Katutuni Primary School where he did his KCPE in 20002001: Kathiani Boys High school, KCSE in 2004.2006: Egerton University, Bachelor of Mathematics graduated in 2010.2013: Elected the MCA for Ikombe Ward.2014: The time has come for Kenyans to speak with one voice as one way of supporting the referendum. Leaders should understand that we need change in this country and one way of solving stubborn problems is through a referendum. Those using vulgar language against Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka have a bleak political future. Kalonzo is our political Commando in ukambani and those applying dirty language on him should watch out. 2015: We don t have to cheat the people of this County that we are reallocating the Ward Fund for the sake of implementing anything. This is just a game of trying to balance the books of accounts so that they are in order.2016: The county government should complete all stalled Early Childhood Centers in the county within three months. It is sad that even with the agreement that each ward was to get two ECD centers done, nothing has been done in the whole of Yatta Sub County. It is unfortunate that some contractors left the work incomplete because the department failed to pay them. 2016: The attempt to remove me from office is unlawful and unconstitutional. The motion was introduced in the house while I was doing my exams in Nairobi. I am being fought because of my intention to have Sh800 million Ward Development Fund distributed to all wards. This is what is causing wrangles. I am being fought because I am opposed to the scheme to grab the funds by some people. All the Wards must get Sh20 million for development. 