A newlywed bride died on her honeymoon after having a heart attack believed to have been caused by eating contaminated fish.Christine Fensome, 54, was on a dream trip to Mexico with her husband Andy Bennetts, 58, when she fell ill during the night on September 27.The mother of three is understood to have died from a heart attack caused by the fatal foodborne ciguatera toxin, found in reef fish contaminated with toxic algae.Christine, from Burghill in Herefordshire, was described as being a 'fit and active' regular gym-goer who doted on her five grandchildren. Christine's brother James Bowyer, 49, told today how his sister died as a result of ciguatera poisoning caused by eating a grouper fish.Ciguatera is the most common marine toxin disease associated with consumption of contaminated reef fish such as barracuda, grouper (pictured), and snapper. /DAILY MAIL The foodborne illness is caused by eating fish contaminated with a toxin from a plankton that is found on coral, algae and seaweed.He said: "If anything can come from my sister's death it is raising awareness about eating fish abroad. Knowledge appears to be quite limited about ciguatera but it can be a hidden death sentence."Due to global warming this toxin is becoming more prevalent and is found on algae on coral reefs in certain parts of the world - including the Gulf of Mexico."This algae gets eaten by smaller fish and those fish get eaten by larger fish like groupers and barracudas. There are no known tests to detect it and there is no effective treatment for it. So there was nothing Christine could have really done."Restaurants over there tend to serve smaller fish as that means smaller the amount of potential toxins."Ciguatera poisonings are quite common but deaths are extremely rare. It can cause shooting pains in the chest and in my sister's case it has caused her to have a heart attack."Even the coroners officer had never heard of it and I don't think many people will have done over here."I want people to be aware of these dangers but most of all remember by sister as an amazing woman who overcame so much to find happiness again."She is a true inspiration to our whole family,'Christine's mother Sybil claimed her daughter died ten minutes after arriving at a Mexican hospital after she fell ill from eating the fish.She added: "Andy says she woke up in the night with terrible sickness and diarrhoea with funny sounds coming from her throat. "She just got worse so an ambulance took her to hospital and within ten minutes of arriving the doctors came out and told Andy she had died."Andy told us it was a heart attack that might have been caused by the fish she ate the night before."Just two days before she died Christine posted photographs on Facebook showing the couple enjoying their honeymoon in Cancun. Today Mr Bennett, who works in insurance, said: "I'm sorry. I'm just not ready to talk about what happened."It is the second tragedy to hit the family after they lost their dad Craig in 2004, who was killed in a hit-and-run at the age of 41.Christine's three children Brad, 33, Richard, 30 and Hayley, 29, say their mother struggled to get over the loss until meeting Andy seven years ago.They say Andy taught her to 'love again' and the pair tied the knot on September 17 before jetting off to South America for their honeymoon.Her daughter Hayley said: "I used to cry to mum that my dad would not be able to walk me down the aisle and she would tell me that she would be there to walk me down the aisle."But now I haven't got anyone. People met her once and fell in love with her. She would do anything for any of us. She tried so hard to be both mum and dad."Hayley said when their father died Christine had struggled to come to terms with the shock and became a recluse.She added: "Our mum didn't come out of the house for five years. She couldn't get going. But she found her feet again slowly and found happiness at the end."Christine's son Richard added: "The fact she went from happy to dark times and finally got happiness again and then this."It is too much to take in. It is a major shock. Mum stuck us all together. She was the glue and now she has gone. She didn't have the ending she deserved for what she gave to life but she is going to have the farewell she deserves."Christine's 79-year-old mother said the family was 'completely devastated': "Her wedding day was beautiful. And then this happens less than two weeks later. It just doesn't seem fair at all. "We are still all in shock and looking for answers ourselves. We want to know exactly what has happened."Christine's funeral will be held on October 21 at St Paul's Church in Tupsley, Hereford.