With 10 months to the 2017 World Under-18 IAAF championships, the event s Local Organising Committee remains stuck as financial bottlenecks curtail operations.LOC chairman Mwangi Muthee revealed that the government is yet to release the monies for ensuring smooth preparations despite the budgetary requests being approved. The few hiccups that we are facing here and there are expected, said Muthee. But the LOC is on top of proceedings and if there is danger, we will raise the red flag and we will be the loudest people in announcing that we are being hindered in doing what is expected of us. However, Muthee observed: There is no reason for the LOC to feel the government is not fully behind this project. The government has procedures which at times take long. But we are hopeful that when everything is in top gear, we are going to recover the lost time, added Muthee.Among the key areas that need to be worked on are, the laying on new tartan tracks on both the main and warm up stadia, shipping of relevant equipments, erecting of major facilities including sponsor booths, media tribune as well as a facility for field event next to the warm-up stadium. As LOC, we want to be procedural and we therefore cannot invite engineers and architects to go ahead with the works without getting the necessary approvals, he added. We are, however, going to tender for the works in the next few days. We already have the documents in place. Meanwhile, Athletics Kenya youth development committee chairman, Barnaba Korir, revealed that they will be counting on the top performers from this year s secondary school games for participation in the event.In addition, the committee held a talent identification camp last month targeting 130 athletes, mainly sprinters and field event participants in Keringet. We have planned to organise training camps for the youths starting December and April last year, said Korir. This never happened owing to financial challenges. But in August this year, despite the money issues, we went ahead and held one at Keringet boarding Sch We are hopeful that we will have several such camps starting in November, targeting eight regions in the country, added Korir.