National women s volleyball under 23 team coach Catherine Mabwi is confident they will prevail ahead of the African women s Under-23 Championships starting this Sunday at Safaricom Indoor Arena, Kasarani.With five days remaining before the event which ends on October 2, the international intimated that her charges are well sharpened for the task ahead, and ready to tackle their adversities at the Confederation during the continental showpiece. We have had adequate time to train for this championship. We have done much with the girls and I am positive that we will stage the best of performance, observed Mabwi, who will be looking to guide the junior team to qualify for the World Under-23 Championships set for the cities of Ljubljana and Maribor, Slovenia from August 27- September 3, 2017. The girls have gelled well and are now playing as one unit, added Mabwi. The friendly matches we had in the previous weeks have prepared the players mentally for the task ahead, continued the head coach. For more than a week now, 14 of the 18 players have been in residential camp and the fate of the absent two is yet to be known. Outside hitter Leah Okumu of Strathmore University and opposite attacker Maurine Wekesa (Kenyatta University), have been missing from camp due to academic commitments. They are still part of the team. They are good players and have done well during training hence we will have to consult with the relevant authorities before naming the final team of 14. We will field the best and strong team in our campaign to win this inaugural trophy, said Mabwi who is being assisted by Kenya Prisons women s team assistant coach Josp Baraza, and KCB s Vernon Khainga as the trainer.Meanwhile, Rwandese under-23 outfit jetted into the country over the weekend and are putting up at the Moi Sports Centre Kasarani. Coached by former Kenya international middle blocker Paul Bitok, the Anglo-francophone squad are training at the Safaricom Indoor Arena after calling off their build up matches they had lined up against top Kenyan clubs. Botswana are likely to arrive in the country tonight, while Egypt, Tunisia, and Senegal are expected to jet in on Friday ahead of the tournament.Players in camp include Setters: Veronica Tanui (Pipeline), Faith Imodia (St. Paul s University). Left attackers: Doreen Marani (KCB), Edna Mwombe (Pipeline) Damaris Jepkorom, Maurine Okiru (Nairobi Water). Middle blockers: Anne Lowem, Shyrine Jepkemboi (Prisons), Synaida Yvonne, the captain- Pauline Wafula (KCB). Right attackers: Yvonne Wavinya (Prisons), Beldine Akinyi (Pipeline). Liberos: Celestine Nyongesa (Pipeline) and Sarah Were (unattached).