The question of who matters most in the business equation is one of those unchallenged thoughts. For long, we have held on to some traditional ideas. But now, with stakeholders replacing shareholders, the shift must be recognised. There are more players in the game of business. So who is king? Who s the most important link in business?Let s start with the obvious traditional thought that customer is king. It s logical. The customer is paying for your services and therefore should be put on a pedestal. If you make her happy, you get paid. The customer is important and should be treated well, but not at the expense of other key players who make it possible for the customer to access the service. You stay in business by keeping your customers happy, but I m not sure they should wear the crown.How about the entrepreneur? I can assure you that many entrepreneurs think they are king/queen. They re the maker, creator and originator of the ideas on which businesses run. Why shouldn t they rule? In fact, to some entrepreneurs, this debate makes no sense. The challenge with this thinking is that profits can be hindered when the entrepreneur is preoccupied with recognition. That said, there s one more group to consider.Why not crown employees? Business leaders must understand that employees have the responsibility to daily manage the brand essence. Most times, there are the ones that customers meet and whatever impression they give about your company becomes the public s impression of your business. Their activities directly affect the bottom-line. In my view, they re the lifeblood of any organisation. Still, I doubt they should reign.The real king: The management expert, Tom Peters, said that business is there for service. And I agree. But serve who or what? The customer is the easy answer, but beyond that, what makes a business great is when everyone involved effectively serves the vision. So in my view, vision is king. When we enthrone this concept, we re freed to focus on giving our best.Interestingly, when we put vision first, it in turn makes everyone royal. Effective service to a strong vision empowers the entrepreneur, energizes employees, satisfies customers, delights stakeholders and improves the bottom-line. In his bestselling book, Money, master coach Anthony Robbins, puts it this way, ...The secret to wealth is simple: Find a way to do more for others than anyone else does...And you will have the opportunity to earn more... Submitting to vision is that way.Twitter: @SamuelMpamugoBlog: theyouideology.com