Predictions that the Jubilee Party will suffer unmitigated constipation due to the toxic waste it swallowed without chewing are becoming a reality. The officials of parties that dissolved under false promises of sitting at the high table are staring at oblivion, whatever promises were made when wooing them long forgotten.In some communities, a stillborn is an ominous abomination buried in secret and never mentioned in public. This must be what is confounding Noah Wekesa, a progenitor of JP, as he stares into the abyss. The fisticuffs in Embu, a seeming ban on establishment of county offices and disquiet over JP s national officials compete for the implosion feared by Senator Kiraitu Murungi. He is scared the baby he incubated is exposed to the vagaries of Kenya s deceitful political weather.But Noah and Kiraitu must not wonder what they got into with the dynamic duo . President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto are not dynamic for nothing; they outfoxed Mwai Kibaki and Raila Odinga to clinch the presidency, and kept the ICC at bay.With secret lists of national officials ferreted to the Registrar of Political Parties and the former TNA fighting to take over Jubilee, shadowing Murungi s fear is the remorseless apathy that now envelops former URP hangers-on. Among the Kalenjin, there is utter despair akin to a forced marriage that goes through all the motions but fails at consummation. Kalenjins are not a talkative lot but a seismic sense of loss underlies their stillness. The major reason is they just don t understand it.And many of us don t too. There are many lingering questions: Does the party launched at Kasarani exist on its own or by proxy? Weeks after the purported launch, the Registrar has told the nation the truth; that it s the Jubilee Alliance Party that applied for a name change and the addition of Uhuru and Ruto as party and deputy leader. The Jubilee Party does not exist, just yet. Since the Kasarani launch was a phantom, I d love to know what the law says about false pretences and confidence tricksters. Speaking of which, another amendment in the Political Parties Act is important to define the word deemed . Currently a member of a political party who expressly supports the activities of another party is deemed to have defected from the sponsoring party. However, the law allows the offender to define the relationship, placing the burden of proof on the offended party, and goes on to absolve the Registrar from decision-making.That s why Cord defectors are mocking calls for by-elections. Many insist they haven t defected to JP and maybe they re right. Other than hiding behind the tedious process of proving deemed , the politicians can convincingly claim JP s non-existence. That goes for hundreds of representatives whose political parties dissolved and are now marooned in uncertainty. The law on party hopping is generous to them with three options; let 30 days lapse to confirm you re a JP member or write to the Registrar declaring you re independent or have joined another party.Jubilee is scared of walkouts by those fearful of an emerging authoritarian streak. Many want out before the severity of control sets in and it s too late. Hence, short of obscuring the article on party hopping, the propaganda machine must keep the leash short. The options on party hopping must be obscured long enough for the window open for those who want to take flight to close. The desire is by October 9, most will automatically become functionaries of JP. Hopefully, JAP would have been registered as JP too. Communications, Publications and Conflict Management Specialist, University of Nairobi