Runyenjes MP Cecily Mbarire is confident she will win the Jubilee Party ticket for Embu governor. I cannot see myself being beaten by incumbent Martin Wambora or anyone else. I am not afraid of anybody. I am telling them to come and we will battle it out. I m not getting out of Jubilee. I am Jubilee by blood and will fight to the bitter end to clinch the nomination, she said.Mbarire spoke at the CDF office in Runyenjes town on Thursday when she distributed cheques for Sh10.1 million for bursaries.The cash will pay fees for 2,667 secondary schools students and 893 universities.Management consultant Kithinji Kiragu and former Transport PS Cyrus Njiru have declared they will run.Mbarire said she is sure the nominations conducted by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission will be free, fair and transparent. She said she will not leave JP even if she loses.Mbarire urged Wambora, Kiragu and Njiru to support her bid and not leave the party if she wins. Since the Jubilee Party is the most popular in the region, the real competition will be during party nominations. Whoever wins is likely to win during the general election. I will therefore fight hard to clinch the party ticket, she said. Mbarire urged school head teachers and principals to join the Jubilee Party and subtly canvas for votes for her from the parents whenever they visit to pay fees or attend other school activities .She said she has funded many school projects through the Constituency Development Funds and that it is time to reciprocate. Mbarire told teachers they have a lot of influence on parents and students and that, although they are not supposed to engage in active politics, they can do her a favour by canvassing for votes.She said Embu County need real change claiming that since election there has been a lot of difficulties and that it s time the county is brought back on course in terms of money management, creation of employment, wealth for the residents and especially the youth.Mbarire said the resources were devolved so that counties can be able to create jobs, wealth, economic empowerment, and to give the youth the chance to stand on their own.