 [E]ach generation must, out of relative obscurity, discover its mission; fulfill or betray it. Frantz Fanon Dear Vijana: You matter: this week s State House Summit on the Youth only further demonstrated this. How much you matter, however, is, and will continue to be up to you. My dearly beloved Muthamaki will make a stunning case about how well the Uhuruto government has undertaken to ensure that you matter. They will invariably point to, for instance, the laudable Access to Government Procurement Opportunities (AGPO) law that this government has midwifed, as manifestation. Uhuruto will say, very correctly, that in February 2012, former President Mwai Kibaki directed that 10% of all government contracts were to be earmarked and awarded to the youth. They will, moreover, show that in 2013, President Uhuru Kenyatta raised this to 30%; and that this is now not just policy but indeed law. What they will happily omit to state is that the manifesto on which Uhuruto stood for elections in 2013 had at least 38 promises that related to the youth (or whose subject matter is core to the improvement of the fortunes of Kenyan youth). Out of these 38, only 3 (including the AGPO legislation one) have been fulfilled. That is a 7.89% performance measure; or a 92.11% failure count. They would also likely prefer not to mention that mindboggling corruption has been found to pervasively characterize programs designed for the youth; the National Youth Service (NYS) and the National Youth Enterprise Development Fund (NYEDF) come to mind in this regard. But it is constitution of Kenya where you will find justiciably embedded within it critical provisions regarding your status and welfare. Article 21(3) obligates all state organs and all public officers to address the needs of vulnerable groups within society including the youth. Article 55, further, lays out affirmative action programs or measures that the state shall take to ensure that youth have access to relevant education and training; have opportunities to associate, be represented and participate in political, social, economic and other spheres of life; access employment; and are protected from harmful cultural practices and exploitation. This is in addition to the national values and principles of governance, under Article 10, including among others, participation of the people, human dignity, equity, social justice, inclusiveness, equality, human rights, non-discrimination, protection of the marginalized, good governance and accountability. And if all this does not convince you that you matter, consider this: the summary by Alex Owiti and Bruce Scott of the Kenya Youth Survey Report (KYSR), launched in January 2016 by the Aga Khan University, informed us that Kenya is a very youthful country. The median age is estimated at 19 years and about 80 percent of Kenya s population is below 35 years. Just going by the benighted theory of the tyranny of numbers , you not only matter, you actually rule! Your vision, imagination and values matter: the views expressed in Sauti Sol s MoneyLover song, Heri ulie kwenye Range Rover ama ucheke kwenye Boda Boda, seem to be the dominant state of affairs among the youth; with the KYSR telling of a crisis of integrity. [W]hat appears to be a high tolerance for corruption, tax evasion and a desire to make money by any means possible. Similarly, a young and corruptible electorate could undermine democracy The figures themselves leave one gobsmacked: 62% of the youth are vulnerable to electoral bribery, with 40% saying they would only vote for a candidate who bribed them 50% believe it doesn t matter how one makes money as long as one does not end up in jail; 47% admire those who make money through hook or crook, (including hustling); 30% believe corruption is profitable; 73% are afraid to stand up for what is right for fear of retribution; only 40% strongly believe that it is important to pay taxes. 35% of the youth would readily take or give a bribe. However, 90% believe it is important to vote, while 70% believe they have the power to make a difference. Why this is important is that as Edmund Burke suggested: Tell me what are the prevailing sentiments that occupy the minds of your young and I will tell you what is to be character of the next generation,Your choices matter: let no one lie to you that your vote does not matter. Balderdash! It all matters: on YouTube, for instance, watch President Barack Obama s passionate exhortation during the 2016 Congressional Black Caucus for the black community to go out and vote this November. If you are to matter beyond the law and highfalutin political promises, your choices matter. Through your vote, you chukua control (take control): this is your moment. In addition, the truth is that currently we cannot figure you out, as observed by Mshai Mwangola in 2011: It is currently impossible to definitely predict the historical mission Generation Next will continue into the 21st century the journey began by the EAAG [East African Association Generation] in its envisioning of a people united within common borders by a shared identity, without the stifling hierarchy of ethnic or racial difference. The MMG [Mau Mau Generation} took the dream a step further with the demand for independence The LHG [Lancaster House Generation] achieved the legal status of independence while the LG [Lost Generation] widened the scope of political engagement, further challenging the institutional status quo that had concentrated the political power of the nation in the hands of a tiny minority It is now up to the UG [Uhuru Generation] to take the challenge of entrenching a new constitutional dispensation, preparing the way for Generation Next s contribution to the making of this nation. The next move is yours: vijana, to enslave or unslave; to ensnare or unsnare; to entangle or untangle? Will you be the generation of Kenya not-rising or Kenya uprising? Carpe Diem and God Speed! Ngure wa Gachanja is a human rights and democratic governance practitioner. The views expressed in this column are entirely his own and in no way represent or articulate those of any organizations he may be associated with.