Garissa Township MP Aden Duale on Saturday warned his rivals to prepare for resounding defeat.He said he is confident of retaining his seat for a third time because he has the support of the majority of residents. Duale spoke in Garissa Ndogo, during a public Baraza.In a thinly veiled attack on hopeful Farah Maalim, he said the former Lagdera MP is a village politician with nothing to offer town residents.Maalim served as the deputy speaker of the previous Parliament. He lost to Yusuf Haji in the Senate race at the 2013 polls. He has declared his interest in the Garissa Township MP race. Those who have failed as members of Parliament during their days in rural constituencies, please come, but know you are digging your political grave. You will burn your fingers, Duale said.The National Assembly majority leader said Garissa Township, being cosmopolitan and the gateway to Northeastern, brings together people from different tribes and religions, hence requires a leader who ensures residents maintain peace. The people of Garissa are very wise. They will never, in their wildest of dreams,think of electing a warlord who will end up causing bloodshed, Duale said.The legislator was recently endorsed by elders from his Abduwak clan. He welcomed the endorsement, saying the elders, in their own wisdom, saw him as the best-suited among his competitors to represent the constituency in the next Parliament.Duale dismissed rumours that he plans to shift his political base to Balambala constituency. He blamed it on his political detractors, whom he said want to cause confusion among his supporters.He also took the chance to popularise the recently lauched Jubilee Party and urged the electorate to vote for the candidates who will contest on the party ticket at the 2017 general election. Some members of the Abduwak community where Duale comes from wanted him to run for the Balambala seat. Others want him to seek reelection for the Garissa Township seat. This has caused confusion. Early this month, 500 youths from the Abduwak clan endorsed his reelection as Garissa Township MP. They waved placards and marched around Garissa town as they expressed support for the MP. Youth Sudi Dakhane said, Our simple message is that we are opposed to attempts to have Duale moved to Balambala constituency. We ll also not accept another candidate to be imposed on us. Lobby Garissa Minority Association also echoed the position. Former National Assembly Deputy Speaker Farah Maalim and former Garissa mayor Siyat Osman are among those who have declared their interest in the Garissa Township MP seat. Others are Abdi Yarre of ANC and Siyat Osman of Kanu, both from the Abuduwak clan. The clan is the largest vote bloc in Garissa county.