Kenyan actor, Charlie Karumi is one of the final three contestants gunning for an international TV job in London. The new gig will see him host and present a brand new four-part series, TLC s Most Extreme, set to premiere on TLC Entertainment early next year, and receive an all-expenses paid holiday to the Palace of the Lost City, courtesy of Sun International.Charles said, I still can t believe that I was chosen it feels unreal and totally unbelievable! I ve been dreaming about becoming a TV presenter since primary school. Through this process I have learnt how to thrive on and become more accustomed to pressure I m ready for the next phase! After four grueling days of boot camp training sessions, expert coaching and tough challenges, Charles made the list of the top contestant. They include Carissa Cupido from South Africa and Karen Paida Mukwedeya from Zimbabwe.ALSO READ: Kenyan actor to compete for international TV hosting gig As of Monday, 10 October the public will have the opportunity to choose TLC s Next Great Presenter by voting for their favourite from the three finalists. Carissa said, "I m excited and terrified all at the same time! What an honour to be representing South Africa on such a dynamic international platform. Boot camp taught me the true meaning of self-belief and I will forever be thankful to TLC for this opportunity. Celebrity judge Thando Thabethe says, We chose the Top 3 based on who best represented TLC and performed best during the boot camp challenges. However, our job is done and the public will now choose the winner, so the Top 3 need to campaign, campaign, campaign! It s now a popularity contest, so whoever can get the most people to rally behind them will make it through as TLC s Next Great Presenter. Choosing the Top 3 was incredibly difficult, as all the semi-finalists were extremely talented. But after watching the final boot camp challenges, it was clear there were three people who had true Next Great Presenter potential. For me, the Top 3 each represent the different sides of TLC; whether it s the fun, zany side; the heart-warming documentaries; or the edgy fashion programmes. My advice to Charlie, Karen and Carissa would be to work on their campaigns and do whatever they can to make TLC viewers see what we saw, and vote for them, said Lee Hobbs, VP of Brand and Content for Discovery Networks CEEMEA.The winner will be crowned live at a glitzy event in Johannesburg.