The high court has barred the Kenya Airline Pilots Association from affecting a strike that is planned for Tuesday, giving a reprieve to national carrier Kenya Airways.The Employment and Labour Relations court issued yesterday issued an interim order stopped the union, its agents and members from either calling, participating or engaging in any form of industrial action pending an interparties hearing.Justice Nduma Nderi, said the orders suspending the strike will remain in force until November 2, when the case will be heard. The pilots should not hold any strike, whether partial or go slow on account of the notice letter issued by the union on October 11 the orders further reads.The pilots had on Tuesday issued a seven days strike notice, calling for the resignation of KQ chief executive Mbuvi Ngunze and Chairman Ambassador Dennis Awori, over alleged mismanagement.Yesterday, the airline said the intended strike is not protected under the law and is meant to sabotage ongoing restructuring process. The intended action is not in furtherance of a trade dispute as required by section 78 of the labour relation act the management aurgued. Group Human resource director Lucy Muhio , in an affidavit said the strike notice and the reasons given by the Union are both in contempt of a court order that was issued on June 2, 2016 following similar threats by the union. To call for Amb Awori and Ngunze to resign is a violation of their constitutional rights and blackmail which cannot be tolerated Muhio told court.KQ has been directed to serve the union with the suit papers ahead of the hearing date.KALPA yesterday however maintaned that its pilots will not fly the carrier s fleet on Tuesday, unless their call for management changes are heard. We are yet to be served but either way our stand still remains the same.We are meeting our members on Monday to deliberate the way forward, secretary general Paul Gichinga said.He said the association remains concerned about the airline s mismanagement which it blames for the record post tax loss of Sh26.2 billion posted for the year that ended March 31. Kenya Airways loss is over Sh52 billion in the last two years. That is where the real focus should be. The people at the top need to be accountable and step aside, Gichinga told the Star on phone.The pilots firm stand also leaves transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia s Thursday directive at limbo, putting the country s aviation industry in a wait and see situation.Macharia had declared the the strike illegal. While it is easy to demand management changes, stakeholders need to understand that in a business as complex as KQ's, hurried and emotionally-driven actions can be counterproductive, Macharia said in a statement.