Commercial banks which have increased charges or changed features of existing products without regulatory approval face penalties, the Central Bank has indicated in a circular to chief executives. CBK governor Patrick Njoroge says the regulator was investigating complaints from customers that some crafty banks have increased transactional charges in the wake of profit margins pressures after loan charges were capped at 14 per cent on September 20. Others have converted savings into current accounts to avoid paying the seven per cent minimum returns on term deposits. Since the Banking (Amendment) Act 2016 came into force on September 14, 2016, the Central Bank of Kenya has received some applications from institutions seeking approvals to increase charges on their products, Njoroge said in the Circular No. 6 of 2016 on Monday. CBK has also received a number of complaints from bank customers stating that their banks have imposed arbitrary charges or unilaterally converted their savings accounts into transactional accounts, and thereby losing the benefits that were accruing from those savings accounts. Besides regulatory approval, the banks should explain to their clients the reasons for varying charges or terms and conditions in the existing contracts, the CBK says. Those that have gone against the provisions, Njoroge says, must reverse their decisions as they are required to notify the customers within a reasonable time of about a month before effecting changes in product features or loan charges. Any conversions of a savings, seven-day, call or fixed deposit account product to a transaction account which have been effected by any institution should be reversed immediately, Njoroge warned, saying those products do not attarct charges. CBK will follow up, on a case on case basis, with any institution which may have violated the law relating to approval of charges and products, and appropriate action shall be taken against the affected institution. The capping of cost of credit have eaten into profit margins of the lenders, with the 42-bank industry 70 per cent dependent on interest income for profit. A text send to a customer operating a savings accounts at Gulf African Bank, for example, read in part: Your account has been changed to a current account to enable you manage your day to day transactions with ease at no extra cost. Your account number will remain the same for your convenience. 