The African Annual Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Conference got underway in Balaclava, Mauritius with poverty and corruption mentioned as threats to development in the region. The Kenyan delegation to the 47th conference is led by National assembly speaker Justin Muturi. Read: President Uhuru Kenyatta speech during State of the Nation address at Parliament Muturi, who spoke after the opening remarks by Mauritius Prime Minister Sir Arenood Jugnauth, said that Parliament's role in achieving and realising sustainable development goals cannot be overlooked. These development goals sit in very well with our parliament given our many committees and the constitutional requirement for public participation in our work, Muturi said. Also read: I don't control Parliament, Uhuru tells CNN The CPA brings together 18 member states in Africa and seeks to connect, develop, promote and support legislators and their staff to identify benchmarks of good governance and implementation of enduring values of the commonwealth. Though majority African countries are facing challenges of good governance, Jagnauth noted that poor leadership leads corruption even as he maintained that democracy remains key to growth. The Mauritius PM noted that political stability reinforces democracy which then favours economic development by giving the citizens the liberty to make good choices. If through your intervention in parliament, you succeed in bringing the executive to address the aspirations of your constituents, you would have succeeded in boosting up social peace and stability. And when there is peace and stability, there is development, Jagnauth told the delegates. He challenged the member states, majority of whom have leadership issues, to allow people to freely make choices for their wellbeing. Parliament operates as the link between the executive and the electorate and therefore at a greater advantage to influence government decisions. CPA members states in Africa include Kenya, Botswana, Cameroon, Ghana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria and Rwanda. The others are Seychelles, Sierra Leone, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia.