Bengi, Lairangi, Leo battle for KNRC 2WD classLeader Eric Bengi, Sammy Nyorri, Alex Lairangi and champion Leonardo Varese will renew their rivalry in the battle for the Kenya National Rally Championship 2WD title in Eldoret this weekend.Varese had his title defence dealt a major blow in Nanyuki when he retired with mechanical problems.Leo, who led the 2WD championship heading to the halfway mark after the Wundanyi Rally, should be back on top of things in case his opponents Lairangi and Bengi stumble in Eldoret. We still have a chance but from the look of things, and statistically speaking, its between Bengi and Lairangi. We hope to have lots of fun in Eldoret but then we will have to take each rally at a time, said Leo. Bengi, who retired with a broken rack, in the Safari said he will be driving very cautiously in Eldoret to keep his title chances alive. Our strategy does not change. This has simply been to drive competitively within our ability and to enjoy ourselves. We have had a terrific time up to where we have reached. The Voi rally was very tough and very technical. Nanyuki was a very important rally for us, firstly to finish and secondly to win in our category. We struggled a bit on the Loldaiga hills but I guess it was the same for the other non turbo cars, Bengi said.Like Bengi, Lairangi is seeking to claim a maiden 2WD title and looks forward to a great run in Eldoret. I believe rallying is just about getting to the finish line and gathering some additional points. Our plan is to be consistent, taking it easy and clean, push where we can and pray that we keep leading until we win the 2016 2wd championship, said Lairangi.Lairangi won the 2016 Safari Rally in 2WD and has since clung to the top three.Sammy Karangatha in a Subaru Leon also hopes to finish his first rally in 2WD. My goal in 2016 is to gain experience and exposure in motorsport. Also to provide spectators and fans with a thrill and a reason to love the sport.Karangatha who is the newest 2WD driver has done two KNRCs after his debut in the Safari Rally and Nanyuki Rally. I m looking forward to a great end to the championship. Most importantly autocross has given myself and team an opportunity to learn the car and team dynamics, Karangatha said.The rally co-sponsored by Liquid Telecom, Toyota and Red Bull will be flagged off outside KCB Eldoret branch on Uganda road at 7am on Saturday after which cars will tackle stages near Eldoret as they head towards Iten.Governors Alex Tolgos and Jackson Mandago will flag off the event in Eldoret. The designated spectator stage will be centred on Chemweno in Moiben.This year s Eldoret rally has attracted two drivers from Uganda in Kepher Walubi and Duncan Mubiru Kikankane .KNRC standings after Nanyuki1. Tapio Laukannen 1042. Jassi Chatthe 1003. Ian Duncan 724. Rajbir Rai 615. Carl Tundo 516. Baldev Chager 497. Onkar Rai 488. Manvir Baryan 419. Mahesh Halai 2010. Frank Tundo 162WD Standings after NanyukiDrivers1. Eric Bengi 1002. Alex Lairangi 953. Leonardo Varese 684. Sammy Nyorri 635. Gurmit Thethy 15Co-drivers1. Anthony Gichohi 952. Tuta Mionki 753. Kigo Kareithi 68