West Ham Vs Arsenal, Today 2:45pm,My Prediction: Hammers... 1 Gunners....2Oh West Ham! The way the Hammers have been playing against big sides this season is worrying. Arsenal opened this league season with a 2-0 loss to them at the Emirates which was the most embarrassing way to open this campaign. And the Hammers have proven over and over again that they are not pretenders this season. They are sixth in the standings just two points behind Man United in 5th and three points behind Man City in 4th; and boss Slaven Bilic has made it clear that he s chasing a top four finish. Arsenal will be ready for a tough game this time. Last time, we were over-confident having just beaten Chelsea in the Community Shield and we were completely unaware at the time that beating Chelsea this term wouldn t be anything to write home about. The Gunners focus of finishing above Spurs can t be stressed enough. We ve gone two important games without conceding and the strength of our backline will be crucial in this game. West Ham haven t lost in their last six matches so this will be exciting to watch. I m banking on our new and rising star Alex Iwobi to shine. Sunderland Vs Leicester, Tomorrow 3:30pmMy Prediction: Black Cats... 0 Foxes... 2Sunderland are as good as relegated and Leicester are as good as champions! That s my view and I m sticking to it. That said; the Black Cats haven t lost a game in their last four matches but are settling for draws which aren t giving them the points they need to survive. They will fight but I don t think their bite will be harmful to a super charged Leicester side. The Foxes are focused on the title and even though many believe they were assisted in their win against Southampton last weekend, they needed to create a situation in the box to force themselves to be in that position. I know many other teams that have been assisted to win the league but that s football. It s not always fair but that s why it s so thrilling! You can t deny that Leicester are attacking hard and deserve everything that s coming to them; and even though some fans are saying that they are playing ugly football; it s effective. Right now, they don t need to be entertaining; they just need to win. This game will take them one step closer to their goal that I am sure. Tottenham Vs Man United, Tomorrow 6pm,My Prediction: Spurs.... 1 Red Devils....1I laugh when I come across such fixtures because in any other year, this would have been a Man United victory. But Spurs are gunning for the title and United are fighting for 4th. How odd is that? But Maurichio Pochettino s boys are looking good and playing well. Even though they drew 1-1 with Liverpool last weekend, the Argentine believes his side can still go on to win the title. It s no longer about who s fit and in form at this time of the season, football is being played mentally. Spurs are seven points behind league leaders Leicester with six games and 18 points to play for. They can still win all their matches but winning the title depends on Leicester faltering. If I were him; I d worry more about rivals Arsenal over-taking Spurs given Gunners are only four points behind with a game in hand. Man United have some small boys who are super talented but their season is impossible to predict. They lose to West Brom then beat Man City and Everton no consistency at all. I m gambling on a draw here.