More than 100 elders from Kisumu county have hailed ODM leader Raila Odinga s wife Ida for setting the record straight on the party's nominations in 2017.The elders said on Sunday that Ida's assurance will dispel anxiety among candidates and supporters in the region. Tension had begun building up in Kisumu because some governor aspirants are already walking around bragging that they have an ODM ticket and telling their opponents that they will be denied the party ticket, said former North Nyakach councillor Leonard Achongo. More on this: Current ODM governors 'deserve' direct tickets - RangumaHe added: We are happy that all the aspirants and their supporters will now approach the upcoming elections knowing that there is a level and fair playing ground and that no candidate is favoured. The elders were speaking after Ida dismissed claims that ODM has preferred candidates for next year's general elections.She asked ODM supporters to disregard what she termed as "cheap propaganda only meant to tarnish the party's reputation and demoralise members". Read: Raila pledges free, fair Cord nominationsUnder the umbrella 'Elders for Peace', the elders said they were rooting for calm in Kisumu because the region is being closely monitored. This time round, we want Kisumu to be on the map as a peaceful region," Maricus Achola from Seme subcounty said. "We are working with the Luo Council of Elders because we want peace and unity to be in all Cord strongholds to enable Raila capture victory in 2017, he added. About eight candidates are looking to unseat Kisumu Governor Jack Ranguma. Among them are area Senator Anyang' Nyong'o and deputy Governor Ruth Odinga.Also read: Do not force us to vote for ODM candidates, Khalwale tells RailaRanguma has already received the backing of three local MPs and a section of elders drawn from Nyakach, Nyando and Kisumu West subcounties.Two weeks ago, the Governor said of ODM nominations that: My rivals fear my strong candidature and are praying day and night that I quit ODM" "They are even going around peddling lies that they already have the party ticket. I want to tell them that I will floor them here in ODM and those who are not used to clean nominations would rather begin looking for these undemocratic parties, he added. Nyong o has partnered with Nyando MP Fred Outa, who is eyeing the position of Senator.Sources say there are talks to have Ruth as Nyong o s running mate, but Ruth said that she is fully in the governor's race.Other aspirants are businessman Hezron McObewa; UN World Food Programme employee Asaka Nyangara; and former lecturer Gordon Okumu. James Obondi, a surgeon; Christopher Ondiek, an architect; and David Wayiera, a banker have also declared interest in the seat.