The government is considering increasing the price of kerosene as one way of curbing adulteration of fuel.Adulteration occurs when pure fuel is made impure by mixing it with another substance of inferior quantity. People are using kerosene to adulterate diesel because of the price differences, Petroleum Principal secretary Andrew Kamau said. Speaking during the commissioning of two new storage tanks at Vivo Energy Kenya, Mombasa terminal, on Tuesday, Kamau said increasing the price of kerosene will make it less attractive for adulterators.Oil industry players, he said, need to ensure high quality control standards.Kamau said the government is working to make Liquefied Petroleum Gas cheaper so as to provide an alternative to kerosene and cushion Kenyans against the planned increase of kerosene prices. We are going to try and get cheaper cylinders and cheaper gas. We cannot go around saying we are a middle income nation and our people are cooking with charcoal, firewood and kerosene," said the PS. Kerosene is also bad for your health. We have got to do everything to ensure we get away from kerosene."Kamau said on average, every Kenyan uses about 50 litres of kerosene per year. That is not possible. It means that kerosene is going to other uses and not for mwananchi, Kamau said.Vivo Energy Kenya managing director Polycarp Igathe said kerosene consumption in the country has increased by 25 per cent.The firm's two new storage tanks will increase storage capacity of diesel by 23 million litres to 53 million litres and that of petrol by five million litres to 29 million litres. This will go a long way in reducing the demurrage charge incurred by the company for keeping oil ships waiting in the high seas.Kenya paid Sh110 million in demurrage last year, Igathe said, with the amount expected to double this year due to insufficient onshore storage facilities for diesel.PS Kamau said though Kenya Pipeline Company is not expanding at the same pace as the oil industry, it is working to increase storage capacity. The government is, through KPC, currently increasing the diesel storage facility by 250 million litres.Kamau said there is need to also develop local skills.The two new storage tanks were constructed by Weld-Con Limited, a local company, in less than 10 months. We are just about to start commercialising our oil. We need people who know how to weld. We can t be bringing people from abroad to come here and do things for us yet young Kenyans are unemployed, the PS said.