Will Cord and Jubilee bosses accept amendments to the recently enacted law on electoral reforms? Well, the IEBC has raised the red flag over timelines and may soon request MPs to amend the Elections Laws Act to provide realistic timeframes. However, there are fears some MPs may open the document for other amendments, including party hopping that threatens their careers. Some Jubilee MPs were heard whispering they are ready to help the IEBC but will first help themselves. The merger of the Jubilee affiliate parties has left many MPs at the mercy of fears of rigging.*****A former MP lost his temper and beat up a man he was meeting at a hotel in the city yesterday.The well-known ex-MP from Northern Kenya walked in with the man. But no sooner had the two taken a cup of tea and started a conversation than the politician lost his cool. He threw such painful jabs that the man fell and broke his glasses in the full glare of shocked patrons. Hotel orderlies had to intervene as the enraged former politico continued with his assault. It remains unclear why the MP decided to go physical.*******A few months after Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero dismantled a cartel at City Hall that was corrupting construction approvals, it appears members of the cartel are back - in full force. A case in point is a house under construction in Buru Buru Phase One near the Holy Trinity Catholic Church, which has been built right on a public parking plot and has extended to the walkways. Residents say City Hall officials went to the scene and actually found out that the house was on public parking but did nothing: Construction resumed two weeks later. The agitated residents now want Kidero to intervene. *****Just who is benefiting from what seems to be double allocation of billions of shillings for Group Personal Accident cover by the Treasury for civil servants? Treasury has spent Sh14 billion on civil servants' GPA and the Work Injury Benefits Act and another Sh2.1 billion in consultancy fees to a business systems company not regulated by the IRA. A private company has been earning Sh16 million per month for supposedly servicing insurance covers offered by other service providers. Some senior procurement officials who have been handling the portfolio have not moved, despite being transferred.******Organisers of the recently launched Jubilee Party are blaming a very senior official reported to have played a major role in inciting delegates over unpaid allowance at the Kasarani Stadium about three weeks ago. Top organising officials have whispered to Corridors that the official wanted to capitalise on the delegates' protests for political mileage. Our moles say that the people who were in charge of the campaigns are afraid to take up the case with the boss.