Commodities exported to Europe will not be taxed even after the deadline for the East African Community to ratify the Economic Partnership Agreements lapses tomorrow, Trade Cabinet Secretary Adan Mohamed reassured yesterday. The European Union Commission had given the five-country East African Community up to October 1 to ratify EPA, failing which Kenya would lose duty and quota-free access to the 28-member EU market. This is because Kenya unlike Tanzania, Uganda, Burundi and Rwanda, is a developing country. The other EAC members are categorised as least developed countries, and therefore eligible under the EU's duty free market under Everything But Arms initiative. Only Rwanda and Kenya have signed the EPA among the EAC members. However, Mohamed said Kenya and Rwanda have signed the EPA, and the move is strong enough to save the country from a tax penalty of between five per cent and 22 per cent on her exports, which would otherwise be effected by the EU council from October 1. Following our signing and ratification of the EPA agreement, we expect our market access to EU to continue and not get interrupted as we had in 2014, he told the Star yesterday. EPA provides more than 1,000 tariff lines, most of which are of Kenya s export interest, which were restricted in the previous regime due to high tariffs and tariff escalation in the EU market. Simplified rules of origin under EPA will also make it easier for Kenya to export into the EU market a wide range of products. Flexibilities include single transformation for textiles products and sourcing of raw materials from other developing countries for manufacturing export commodity. The deal also gives Kenya a platform to discuss and resolve EU standards and SPS (Sanitary and phytosanitary) measures that have continued to constraint Kenya s exports to the EU. The negotiated flexibilities in the rules are supportive of agricultural and industrial development, laying emphasis on value addition for agricultural products," a memorandum by the Trade ministry reads. The deal seeks to secure investments and jobs in the horticulture cector, fisheries, and in the chemical and other related sectors. The EAC on the other hand will liberalise its market for the EU, a move Tanzania is against, saying it will kill its local industries. The market opening is currently at 82.6 per cent of total EAC imports from the EU where 65.4 per cent of product are already duty free under the Common External Tariff. The products are mainly raw materials, capital goods, medicaments and other essential goods. Kenya Association of Manufacturers has, however, assured Kenya and the region that local industry protection has been considered in the pact. We have been part of the negotiations and we have ensured we have a solid agreement to protect local industries, KAM CEO Phyllis Wakiaga told the Star. Kenya was placed under the General System of Preference trade regime between October and December 2014 after the EAC members failed to sign the EPA. As a result, about 87 per cent of Kenya's exports, mainly from agriculture and manufacturing industries, to the EU valued at Sh98 billion were affected. Tanzania has largely been opposed to the EPA, saying the deal does not serve its interests. Uganda and Burundi have asked for more time to look into the agreement, and this was granted by the heads of state summit in Dar es Salam this month, which pushed the EPA talks to January 2017. Efforts to lobby Tanzania to sign the EPA have in many instances been unsuccessful, as it sees the outlined benefits in the agreement to be largely in favour of Kenya.