More than 100 elders from Kisumu county have praised Cord leader Raila Odinga s wife Ida Odinga for defusing tension by setting the record straight on free and fair ODM nominations.While in Kisumu on Tuesday last week, Ida said there will be no preferred candidate in ODM primaries in 2017.She was in Kisumu at the invitation of Governor Jack Ranguma to launch a livestock distribution projectIda said aspirants will compete in free and fair primaries and the party leadership will not allow shambolic nominations. There is this rumour doing the rounds that there is a list of preferred candidates. I wish to report to you that I have even approached Jakom [Raila] over the alleged list and he assured me there is nothing like preferred candidates, she said.Ida asked ODM supporters to disregard the cheap propaganda only meant to tarnish the party s reputation and demoralise members .The elders from all the seven subcounties in Kisumu, who gathered at Ojola centre in Kisumu West on Sunday, said Ida s assurance will prevent anxiety among the county s governor hopefuls and their supporters. Tension had begun building up in Kisumu because there are some governor aspirants who were already walking around bragging that they have the ODM ticket. They tell their opponents that they will be denied the party ticket, former councillor Leonard Achongo, of North Nyakach, said. We are happy that all the aspirants and their supporters will now approach the upcoming elections knowing that there is a level and fair playing ground and no candidate is favoured. The elders, under the umbrella Elders for Peace, said they are hoping for peaceful elections in Kisumu. They said the county is closely monitored during elections. This time round, we want Kisumu to be on the map as a peaceful region. We are working with the Luo Council of Elders because we want peace and unity in all Cord strongholds to enable Raila capture victory in 2017, elder Maricus Achola, from Seme subcounty, said.Ranguma faces aspirants Senator Anyang Nyong o, Deputy Governor Ruth Odinga, businessman Hezron McObewa and architect Christopher Ondiek.Others are banker David Wayiera, UN WFP employee Asaka Nyangara, former lecturer Gordon Okumu and surgeon James Obondi.