The father of former murdered NTV journalist Wambui Kabiru was yesterday warned against posting prejudicial comments on the case on his social media accounts.Justice Jessie Lesiit cautioned John Kabiru against discussing the murder case on his Facebook account or any other social media platform.The judge issued the orders after Moses Dola, who is on trial for Wambui s murder, complained that Kabiru had been posting injurious statements on Facebook.Through lawyer Cliff Ombeta, the freelance journalist said as a result of kabiru s comments, he has been receiving threatening calls and text messages from strangers. The father in-law has posted on his Facebook page comments that suggest Dola is on the run, he even asked members of the public to look for my client and arrest him. My client is not hiding and has never since this case began, Ombeta said.The lawyer said his client fears for his life and asked court to intervene.In a ruling, Lesiit said action will be taken against Wambui s father if he continues to comment on the case.A warrant of arrest was issued against Dola last month after he skipped a mention date, but it was lifted after he presented himself before the court.The journalist told the court he had not been served with the mention date.Wambui was found dead in the couple s house in Umoja estate, Nairobi, on May 1, 2011. Dola has denied any involvement in her death. He is out on a Sh500,000 bail. The court has ruled that he has a case to answer and he is expected to defend himself on October 27.In February, Wambui s house help said her employer s husband was disturbed over their marital problems, but she did not think it was serious. Eunice Mwangi, 52, told Justice Roseline Korir that Dola asked for her advice. He asked me, what can a man who is having disagreements with his wife do, she said. I told him such couple should discuss their problems with parents from both sides. The day before Kabiru s body was found, Mwangi said Dola came drunk at midnight. She said she did not suspect there could be anything wrong with the couple, because at night she heard Kabiru laugh.