Being in the opposition is undoubtedly a difficult thing. No one appears to have experienced this more than ODM boss Raila Odinga. Well, some of his most ardent online supporters are switching camp to the Jubilee Party one-by-one. It s said one expected support for a parliamentary seat which he did not get while the other wanted a job at the Orange House. The one who wanted a job, sources whisper to Corridors, is now fighting for a slot in the Jubilee Youth League. His Facebook page is littered with praise for Jubilee. The man, from Western Kenya, recently came under fire from some university dons who told him to his face that he is a self-seeker looking for quick cash for political support. ***** A county executive from Kericho county is a man on the spot. Reason? The man, who joined the county government with little material possessions to his name, has in just four years acquired so much wealth, it has caused bewilderment. According to a small bird in the county, the man, who heads a crucial docket, now owns several trucks and he has been using them to do business with the county, a clear conflict of interest. A legislator from the county was overheard to say it is only a matter of time before the county official is arrested by Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission detectives. *****A senior police officer attached to Nyayo House is said to be misusing his gun to torment his 42-year-old wife. Corridors is told the sergeant has been cocking the gun on several occasions, threatening to shoot her in the presence of their children. It is said the officer has been using police vehicles and a security mobile phone tracking system to monitor her movements. It is also said the man has been detaining her in the house to prevent her from reporting to police or going to hospital after descending on her with heavy blows and kicks. Corridors has been told the helpless mother of three is contemplating suicide because the Kiserian and Kilimani police officers have been unhelpful, despite reporting the bully hubby. *****A senior official of a political party from Western Kenya is a bitter man after a governor who belongs to his party sidestepped him in a tender award. Corridors is reliably informed that the man was canvassing to be given the tender without following the procurement procedures. But when the governor questioned his schemes and it later emerged that his younger brother had won the tender, he was so mad at his governor, that he told him that he was not the man he had given the job.