Athletics Kenya (AK) have reassured their members that the national elections set for early next year will be free and fair.In a statement, the athletics governing body said: We appreciate we are at a critical moment as we head to our elections and understand that there are a lot politicking going on. This, however, does not call for any form of instability since the polls will be guided by the existing laid down procedures. We demand that those responsible for the political tensions to seek a lasting solution by ensuring they follow the right channels, failure to which their actions will be construed to be illegal and will, therefore be met by the full force of the law. The statement further reassured of the completion of the constitutional review process soon, having received the stakeholders views earlier in the year.The federation added: However, we have learnt with total dismay that there are individuals who are planning to interfere with the day-to-day operations at Riadha House in the coming days. The group is comprised of individuals, who are impersonating top athletes with the primary agenda of obstructing operations with convictions that they can take over the federation through the backdoor. It is important that there is an immediate stop on such arrangements, they added. We hereby assure the athletics family in Kenya that such threats will neither be tolerated nor will they hinder us from doing our job as the sport s governing body in the country. The federation appreciated they have had various challenges and called on any disgruntled individual to use the right channels in relaying their grievances. We have an open door policy where individuals have the right to air their views or demand any information available, desisting from using ways and means that could put the federation and sport in jeopardy, the statement further read. In addition, we want to assure our affiliates, athletes and the general public that as the season comes to an end, we are working tirelessly to ensure that our upcoming events are executed without fail. 