Tottenham Vs Liverpool Saturday 230pmMy Prediction: Spurs 1-2 The RedsIn their entire history, these two teams have played each other 150 times with Liverpool having the edge over the Spurs. The Reds have won 68 of those games and Spurs 44. The rest have ended in draws. But in the last one year; nothing separates the two teams with one league meet in the 2015/16 ending in a 1-1 draw and the other in a 0-0 draw. But over the years Liverpool have somewhat dropped from being a force to reckon with and allowing Spurs to take their slot in the top four. The Reds started this season in style edging out Arsenal 4-3 but last weekend shamefully went down 2-0 to Burnley of all newbies! And Jurgen Klopp pretty much used the same squads in both games. In pre season they beat Barcelona heavily 4-0 then lost by a similar margin to Mainz the next day! So lack of consistency will be Liverpool s undoing this term. But they do seem to be beating the big guns and losing to the smaller ones; so they might just get one over Spurs here. Spurs haven t quite been themselves yet this term opening the season with a draw against Everton and needing a later winner from Victor Wanyama to beat Crystal Palace last weekend. This will be an interesting tie but I regret to say I see a Liverpool win.Chelsea Vs Burnley Saturday 5pmMy Prediction: The Blues 1-1 BurnleyOnly four teams have a 100% record so far this term and Chelsea is one of them; sitting pretty in fourth! But last weekend they had to come from behind to beat Watford 2-1 and they conceded a goal in their first game as well. So Antonio Conte s back line isn t altogether up to speed but at least they are grinding out wins. Diego Costa is back at his best and even though his attitude still stinks; he s coming out on top. Burnley meanwhile will be beaming with confidence following their 2-0 victory over Liverpool and they ll use that to approach this game without an iota of fear. In their opening game against Swansea they only let in one goal so their defence is as solid arguably, as Chelsea s. This won t be an easy game for either side and I think they ll come out in a draw; considering both sides have shown that they have a strike force that delivers. Watford Vs Arsenal Saturday 5pmMy Prediction: Watford 1-3 The GunnersI shouldn t be laughing but I am because the option is to cry. I can t believe that Arsenal are two games in with no win to speak of. What an embarrassment! We may have scored three goals in the loss to Liverpool but failing to score a single goal against Leicester last weekend was reflective of our blunt strike force. Can Arsene Wenger bring Olivier Giroud back already! And can we please confirm the signing of a striker please! Giroud has rested enough and needs to begin to earn his stripes and given our two dismal opening performances, I don t think manager Arsene Wenger will take any more chances. Watford gave Chelsea a scare last weekend by scoring first not to mention they held Southampton to a 1-1 draw in their opening game. So the Gunners need to be sharp and at their best to get the three points today and I believe we will. The shame so far of being on page two I really don t know how Chelsea survived most of last season is sickening and we need to begin to focus.Hull City Vs Manchester United Saturday 730pmMy Prediction: The Tigers 2-2 The Red DevilsJust like Manchester United; Hull City is one of the four teams with a 100% points tally after their two opening matches. They shocked everyone with a victory over defending champions Leicester during the opening game of the season and kept up that momentum with a 2-0 victory over Swansea last weekend. So Mike Phelan is doing something right! And clearly he isn t afraid of any team. Man United meanwhile are looking good and that is so painful to say. Although they haven t had any serious opposition so far. Bournemouth was easy and Southampton aren t quite themselves yet. But I respect Zlatan Ibrahimovich so much and I know he s going to terrorise defences all over the show this term. I am still going for a scoring draw.