A go-slow by Kenya Airways technicians is to blame for the weekend mess that left many passengers stranded, insiders have told the Star. Sources at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport said for some time, the technicians have been at loggerheads with the management. The sources said the technicians were also worried about the mass resignations of colleagues in the engineering department. They indicated the majority of engineers had resigned for greener pastures, leaving a lot of workload. The airline has about 600 engineers. The technical department has been grappling with staff shortage. CEO Mbuvi Ngunze said the airline is facing high staff attrition because of massive poaching by the Middle East firms. He said the management understands this and is taking action. We are looking for initiatives and alternatives to retain our staff, Mbuvi said during the annual general meeting on Thursday. A press statement sent by KQ s public relations agency dismissed the claims it cancelled more than 24 flights at the weekend because of the go-slow. According to the statement, only one flight was cancelled on Sunday. But the Star established KQ2577, KQ2610, KQ2577, KQ8655, KQ8608, KQ8609, KQ2256 and KQ2720 were among the cancelled flights on Sunday. Others were KQ2256, KQ8604, KQ8605, KQ8654, KQ436, KQ8655 and KQ437. Kenya Airways wishes to reassure its passengers the operational challenges experienced over the weekend, which led to inadvertent delays have been addressed, the statement read. We had delays on the Mombasa operations for KQ608/9 and the afternoon Jambojet flights. Jambojet was experiencing non-availability of two aircraft. This led to significant delays. These flights were fully recovered, albeit inconvenience to our flying guests. According to Kenya Airways, this was the first time the problem occurred on the worldwide 787 fleet. It said it sought assistance from Boeing. Boeing representatives, together with our engineering support team, were involved in troubleshooting and the final return to serviceability. This took longer than expected, it said. The statement said one of the airline s B787 Dreamliners last week experienced a technical problem in Hanoi, Vietnam. As part of the recovery of operations, it experienced some problems getting its passengers re-booked on other flights and carriers.