Mathare United Vs AFC Leopards, Saturday 3pmMy Prediction: Mathare United...1 Ingwe....1Mathare United had a pretty solid first half to the season but they seem to be losing games which they shouldn t. They currently sit third in the KPL standings though equal on points with Gor Mahia who are second; but Mathare could have been higher up on the log had they not lost to Western Stima last weekend. But I understand playing Kisumu was rather intimidating for them given that Stima has a lot of support in that area. It won t be any easier at the Nyayo Stadium given AFC Leopards support all over the country. Ingwe s big 4-0 win last weekend has created confidence in both players and fans; and fans are known to turn up in large numbers when their team is on a winning streak. If AFC forward line comes with the same vigour used against Thika United last weekend, then they have nothing to worry about. Mathare though are the Kings of draws and have been for several years. They have been known to kill a good party by ensuring no-one leaves with maximum points and I think they ll play defensive here and hope for a draw.Tusker Vs Chemelil Sugar Saturday 3pmMy Prediction: Tusker ..1 Chemelil...1Tusker are riding high at the top of the standings but it s no surprise. They have been consistent since the season started and even if Gor Mahia had not been deducted three points; Tusker would still have been on top. Ten wins out of 17 games and just two losses is what they have attained. However, they can t afford to slow down with Gor just five points behind them. Chemelil Sugar, however, seem to be stepping up against the big sides. After losing 1-0 to Muhoroni Youth just before the mid-term break, they came back in the second half of the season with intention to turn matters around. That has seen them beat both AFC Leopards and Sofapaka after the break; although beating bottom-placed Sofapaka right now is nothing to write home about. But it mean that when called upon to perform; Chemelil can. Tusker also have a 100% record after the break and given both their starts to the second half of the season; I ll bank on a scoring draw.Ushuru Vs Gor Mahia Sunday 3pm,My Prediction: Ushuru...2 K ogalo...2Hashtag what is Ushuru is what many Gor Mahia supporters must be saying now. The confidence of my people knows no bounds and K ogalo believe that truthfully; they should be atop of the league. That said; it was their own fault last weekend that they didn t secure maximum points against Kakamega Homeboyz! Everything was in Gor s favour; an above average squad and supporters galore; but alas! Mike Muiruri s boys had other plans; and their game plan worked! Ushuru meanwhile have also started the second half of the season well. A win against Sony Sugar and coming from behind to get a draw against Bandari in Mombasa last weekend is what they have achieved. And boss Ken Kenyatta fears no-one. The fact that Gor Mahia has lost twice this season and drawn six times shows that it is possible to get a result against the defending champions. Much to the chagrin of my fellow K ogalarians; I m banking on a draw.