Kenyans have oh so often been victims of the City Council askaris. Try making the mistake of spitting while walking or drop litter aimlessly, then you'll know how serious this kanjo dudes, take their job.But many people have complained about how sometimes they are arrested for no good reason and asked to pay ridiculous amounts of money in penalties. Most victims are casual laborers who earn so little.Ciku Muiruri found herself in the same situation after her messenger was arrested in the CBD. The situation angered her and she wrote:"On Friday, my messenger - who was running an errand in the CBD - Was arrested alongside other pedestrians and thrown inside a kanjo pickup as they crossed the road. They were charged with "idling" and told they would stay in the entire weekend unless they parted with "kitu kidogo". 'We managed to secure his release but interestingly, in the booking records, it was written that he was arrested by a cop - Sergeant Mugweru of Kamukunji Police Station. It seems that there is a racket being run by cops and city hall officials. When we got him out, he told us that many of the men he was arrested with are casual labourers who earn 400 bob a day and that there was no way they could pay the 2k shakedown that was being demanded of them. "Imagine staying in cells the whole weekend for doing nothing but crossing a road? Now I'm reading in the paper that a group of Central Police Station-based plainclothes officers have also been harassing and indiscriminately arresting youth walking in the CBD. They always time you on a Friday so that you are more likely to bribe them. "Cops confronted two youths near the Kencom bus stage and demanded Sh1,000 from each of them. When they could not produce the money, despite two hours of haggling, they were booked at the station for allegedly preparing to commit a felony. A 51-year-old victim of similar cop extortion has been held at the station for the past one week without being charged. "This is very serious. If we do not rein in these rogue cops and city hall crooks who are shaking down innocent Kenyans, who will protect us from actual criminals? And is there really a difference between these guys and someone who robs you on the street?"