Harambee Stars Vs Guinea BissauMy Prediction: Kenya 2 Guinea Bissau...1That man called Idrissa Camara had better not be at his best in this game. He got a slight injury and had to be subbed early in the return fixture where he scored the lone goal for Guinea Bissau; and while I don t wish an injury on any player; I just hope he s not as sharp as he was in the last leg. We need favours like that for Kenya to advance in this tournament. Things are already not looking good for Harambee Stars because we are yet to win a game in Group E and we are half way through the qualifiers. Having lost to Zambia here at home last year and drawn away with Congo, we only have one point from three matches; leaving us bottom of the group. Stars coach Stanley Okumbi needs to listen to some advice in this game because Bissau weren t all that better than us; but they got the crucial goal. We need to start with experience and field players in their right positions. I respect the youngster Patillah Omotto but this isn t the time to be experimenting with the squad. We have great players who are in good form for their clubs and yet they are being benched! Players like Paul Were and Jesse Were (not related) can make the difference in this game. With Captain Victor Wanyama having now rested after playing the return leg after seven hours of rest; things should be better. Victor was good in the first leg and you wouldn t have known he was exhausted from travel; so imagine what contribution he can make now. As much as I have my issues with Okumbi s appointment as the national team coach; he is there now and I need to support Team Kenya come tomorrow. And guys; the players need you cheering them along so if you re in Nairobi; please turn up at the Nyayo Stadium to do just that. Harambee Stars is all we ve got as a national team; let s show them some love and who knows! Victory may follow. Cameroon Vs South Africa, Today,My Prediction: Indomitable Lions....3 Bafana Bafana...1Well hello Cameroon, it seems you are back! Two games played; two games won! After a couple of difficult years the Indomitable Lions are being serious again. They have a new coach in Belgium s Hugo Broos and they are facing a Bafana Bafana side that is in Kenya s predicament! One point from two games and unlikely to add to that against this team. The South Africans have over-rated themselves for far too long and they need to be brought back down to earth.Bafana boss Shakes Mashaba says the two fixtures against Cameroon will be vital for their team but I m not banking on them much given that they did lose 3-1 to Mauritania of all teams. They, however, seem to be lying to themselves that they have the upper hand because of statistics. In six meets against Cameroon, SA have won three and lost one; but they have never played in Cameroon. And there s been a sort of revival in the Cameroonian side in the last two years or so. So I ll give this hands down to the French speakers!