The tyranny of tribal numbers has no place in democracy. It has given deceptive legitimacy to power as a property of the tribe. The tribe then is a protective shield for a power cliqueUntil the constitution is changed to give tribes voting rights, one-man-one-vote remains the pillar of democracy. The notorious ethnic-defined tyranny of numbers is, therefore, a lie by a clique to control tribal perception of power. The forces of reaction want to hold onto this tyranny to maintain the status quo.Wielders of political power do not expect the equation to change in the 2017 general election. They do not expect change in 2022 or 2027.The public is being told President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto have it figured out for two decades. Kiambu Governor William Kabogo was reprimanded when he suggested otherwise. The county will build the William Ruto Stadium to make up for the governor s blunder. TNA-nominated Senator Paul Njoroge risks being recalled if he speaks again in a way that threatens the Kikuyu-Kalenjin pact.The minority Kuria, Njemps, Somali and Maasai have no choice but to tag along with the majoritarians if they wish to be in government . Never mind that the constitution recognises individual rights. And the state, no matter the President, should serve the national interest.The 2032 general election falls two years after the development goalpost Vision 2030. Then, the jubilant duo will have done the constitutional two-terms of a decade each. Their children will have grown old enough to continue the relay. If wishes were horses, it can be submitted, beggars would ride.Vision 2030, for the Jubilee Alliance, has no room for the liberation of the individual from the stranglehold of the tribe. This development blueprint does not provide for individual consciousness. It has no provision for change of the intellectual software of the individual. For as long as the steak-holders are in control, they will ensure individuals remain imprisoned by the dominant fears of the tribe.The politically correct don t plunder on behalf of their tribes. The powerful do not share the spoils of abuse of public office with paupers in their villages. The poor woman, a voter and a taxpayer, buys a kilo of sugar at the same price as a former Cabinet Secretary. The former minister had the motive, opportunity, and means to plunder public accounts for self-aggrandisement. Shopping malls have no special shelves for supporters of the ruling alliance or the opposition. Petrol stations have no special pumps for Cord supporters. There are no special pump prices for Jubilee hawks.The tyranny of vested interests is founded on an unflinching hold on the steak. This our never-ending-turn-to-eat does not recognise other people s right to fair participation in public governance. The authors of this ethnic conundrum have tied their own insecurities, fears, ambitions, and interests to the tribal horse. They have, in turn, given deceptive legitimacy to power as a property of the tribe. The tribe then is a protective shield for a power clique. These powerful individuals are always willing to subvert the law, skew the playing field, deceive, compromise and prostitute reason to win the minds of their kin. Reason is suspended to protect vested interests.Aristotle, the Greek philosopher, recognised subversion of the law centuries ago, when he said: ... he who bids the law rule may be deemed to bid God and reason alone rule, but he who bids men rule adds the element of the beast; for desire is a wild beast, and passion perverts the minds of rulers, even if they are the best of men. Right-thinking Kenyans have a national duty to tame the beast of passion and desire to control wealth and power, only then will we bid the law rule.The public is being told Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto have it figured out for two decades