E-commerce uptake has slowed down due to lack of digitisation of government services, an e- commerce meeting has heard. The Central Bank of Kenya representative to the second annual edition of Payments, Future Bank and Commerce East Africa exhibition that ended yesterday at a Nairobi hotel, told delegates that more money is transacted electronically through banks and not mobile money as is widely believed. CBK assistant director National Payments System told a plenary at the exhibition that up to Sh100 billion is transacted daily through Real Time Gross Settlement. The amount transacted through RTGS far outstrips the Sh15 billion mobile company Safaricom revealed was being transacted daily on its mobile money platform M-Pesa. The forum was attended by various global online payments companies. Online shopping site OLX was cited as one of the successful e-commerce ventures in Africa. Country manager Peter Ndiang ui told delegates that usage of online markets had drastically reduced the cost of food and other agricultural products by directly engaging with farmers and eliminating middlemen and brokers along the food value-chain. The customer base, volume of produce transacted and revenues all surged in the first three months of the new agriculture category that provides a forum for farmers to sell agricultural products and livestock. The growth was unprecedented. The manner in which farmers and their customers have embraced the use of the forum surpassed our projections, Ndiang ui said. He said the increase in demand for fruits, vegetables and livestock transacted over the forum had lifted the volume of products traded. Joseph Ridley, general manager of Terrapin, an international business media company which organised the event, said East Africa is an exciting market place to venture into. He said the region presents some of the greatest industry opportunities as people continue to move towards a cash-lite society, and engage with new always-on digital consumer. Globally new financial technology companies and blockchain technologies are revolutionalising the traditional payment, banking and commerce landscape at an unprecedented rate. As payments, loyalty, digital and retail collide and converge, new ways of doing business and new solutions present themselves daily in this highly competitive market, Ridley said.