Abdulswamad Shariff Nassir is considered President Uhuru Kenyatta s greatest buddy among Mombasa politicians.This is despite the fact that he was elected on an ODM ticket and remains faithful to the party at least for now.A son of the late Mvita MP Sharif Nassir s, the legislator was regarded as the late Kanu supremo s heir to the Mvita parliamentary seat. His key focus in all his political activities is on the youth and education. It is this love for children that has made me think of them more than other. They are the foundation of anything great. They need to be nurtured early. That is why I have a keen interest in education, says Nassir. Education is the key factor that is going to change things from where we are to where we want to be. You either put children in school or you are going to put adults in prison. He has initiated income generating projects for teachers in his Mvita constituency Mwalimu House, a complex at Ronald Ngala primary school where teachers can rent out offices and collect rent.However, the political bug had not bitten Nassir proper, despite having an interest, until 2007 when he entered into elective politics for the first time. One of the major reasons that pushed me into politics actually was the people. I was in public life way even before my late father died, I was running several community-based organizations that were helping people, he explains.However, it was not until his later father started taking him to political events that the political animal in him stirred up. After high school, I told my father I would like to pursue a degree course in political science. But he told me what I would learn from him was greater than I would ever learn in any class. I put off that idea. The ODM MP however is unhappy seeing youth in Mombasa get sucked into the world of radicalisation and extremism.His Mvita constituency was at one time the bedrock of radicalisation and extremism, so much so that the security apparatus conducted frequent swoops, arresting both the innocent and the not so innocent.His passion for the preservation of human rights, coupled with his vocal nature against human rights abuses, has seen him branded a terrorist sympathiser. In the 2010 Constitution, we have a beautiful document that guides us as a country. What would be the purpose of all those who lost blood and those who lost sweat and toiled to ensure we have this constitution? says Nassir.In five minutes1974: Born in Majengo, Mombasa, where his entire extended family lived, coincidentally.1981: Joined Aga Khan primary school, where he stayed for four years before shifting to Coast Academy where he did his KCPE in 1988.1989: Joined Lenana High school where he did his KCSE in 1992, attained a B plain grade.1993: Diploma in Aviation in Nairobi before getting into business.2007: Entered elective politics for the first time.2013: Elected Mvita MP.Quotes2012: The crackdown on MRC members is not the solution. The answer is to address the issues raised by the group, whose cries have gone for a long time without being heard or addressed. 2014: When we get so engrossed in fighting injustice to the extent that we cause injustice to others, then there is no difference between us and those who harm us. If we want to fight criminals and in the process we end up hurting more of those who are innocent, then what is the difference between us who are supporting that and the criminals themselves? 2015: This government spent Sh24 billion in unapproved expenses. What is our role in the National Assembly if they decide to spend money without our approval? That is a dictatorial type of governance where they can spend money however they wish. Over and above what was approved for particular projects, an extra Sh24.5 billion was spent in excess expenditure. 2016: It is a bit sad when the Ministry of Health and the National Treasury decided to personally attack the Auditor-General using public funds and went ahead and put paid adverts in the dailies. Instead of answering those queries, they are trying to defend themselves. I wish to remind them that the Office of the Auditor-General is a constitutional office and they need to answer those queries instead of coming out to the public.