The Coalition for Restoration of Democracy in a serious collision course bordering on self-destruction. Three factors have precipitated this collision. The first is the issue of presidential flag bearer, the second is recalcitrant and uncompromising political rhetoric emanating from the CORD leadership and the third is the Hassan Joho factor.In part, the unity within the CORD fraternity is threatened by the political rhetoric of politicians, especially those from ODM, who have the tendency of bragging about ODM supremacy and underrating the strength and impact of the other coalition parties. For example, if ODM politicians unilaterally declare Raila Tosha for the presidency, they are undermining the political unity of purpose within the CORD coalition. Similarly, if ODM politicians declare - as they did in Kisumu - that Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho should be Raila s running mate in 2017, they endangering the sustainability of CORD as a symbol of political unity to win the presidency. In short, politics of chest-thumping and reckless political talk especially within ODM is what is rocking the unity of purpose in CORD. Supporters of the other coalition partiers feel dejected and their leaders alienated. ODM is indeed the largest and most popular opposition party in Kenya; nevertheless, it cannot, on its own, win the presidency without support from other parties. Then there is the Joho factor, which also threatens to tear the CORD coalition asunder. At the national level, Joho is increasingly becoming Raila s right hand man and perhaps wants to succeed him as ODM party leader. Joho s ambitions, however, have not gone well with some leaders within the CORD fraternity who have attributed their sidelining to Joho s actions and activities in ODM. There are at least three actions CORD leaders need to take to reverse the apparent breakup of the coalition. First, they must agree to retain the 2013 presidential line up and ensure they immediately name Raila Odinga as the flag bearer. Irrespective of his advanced age, Raila is still charismatic with the energy to galvanize and unify the opposition toward competitively winning the presidency in 2017. Secondly, CORD leaders and especially those from the ODM side, must stop politics of underestimating the strengths and impact of partner parties, No matter how popular ODM, on its own, cannot win the Presidency without support from the other coalition parties. Thirdly, as a youthful politician, Joho is rightly working his way towards fulfilling the three tripe goals motioned above--to be the Coast political supremo, to succeed Raila as national ODM party leader, and run for the presidency in 2022. As of now, Joho s major challenge as he works towards achieving these triple goals is to unify coastal communities for a bloc vote. All politics is local.