LET me start by making two comments and these are remarks that I want to see taken very seriously.First, I want to say as much to the political class as to the people of Kenya: You are getting late. This IEBC issue has been allowed to go on for far too long. If there are to be new commissioners, they should have already been in place by now.Main story: IEBC memo sparks fears over 2017 pollYou cannot hope to have a successful outcome when you assign people to perform a complicated ask which they do not fully understand. You cannot have new people presiding over what they don t know.So the sooner Kenyans have these people in place, the better.Second is that the current group of IEBC commissioners are being forced out of office in a manner that is against the law. I feel I must make this very clear. They should therefore be paid their dues, for all their service, up to the time when they would have procedurally left office, at the expiry of their tenure.This is what the country owes them.There is no point going around saying that these people have resigned. They have been forced to resign. And they have said themselves that they are only doing this for the good of the country. So they should be paid.In the meantime, they should remain in office until a new commission is properly set up, which they can handover to.Meantime, we should note that the secretariat is in place, and if it is well organized all the way to the constituency level, then we have a functioning system.The commissioners are policymakers, and we must have them. And indeed, even now, however demoralized the commissioners may feel, they have to continue working. They should be allowed to go on until the new team comes in.The new team must now be recruited as soon as possible, so that the outgoing team can handover. And in my view it is important that they should handover in a friendly manner, so that the good work can continue.I would repeat one thing though: Let there be no pretense to the contrary.So now that they have agreed that the country is bigger then themselves, I agree with them wholly on that. And they must receive their dues in full.