MPs who scrutinise audit reports could lose their constitutional oversight role to the overwhelmed anti-graft agency.The Kenya Economic Report 2016recommends the constitutional responsibility be shifted for greater efficiency.A task force on review of the legal, policy and institutional framework for fighting corruption proposes the Auditor General s audit reports be sent directly to the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and not Parliament. The team says this will speed up the fight against graft. To enhance the fight against corruption, a legal framework to facilitate the transmission of the Auditor General s reports directly to the EACC for timely investigations and eventual prosecutions by the Director of Public Prosecutions should be established, the report states.It was signed by Devolution CS Mwangi Kiunjuri. The KER 2016 report by the Kenya Institute for Public Policy Research and Analysis, however, pokes holes in EACC s capacity to handled a backlog of cases as a lead graft investigator. President Uhuru Kenyatta appointed Mohamed Mukras, a renowned economic scholar, in 2014 to lead the Kippra board in conducting an in-depth assessment of various economic sectors. It also provides economic prospects in the medium-term. Corruption remains a challenge that is undermining the authority and effectiveness of the executive. Corruption in Kenya is affecting service delivery in many public sectors and EACC has recorded increase in the number of cases, the report states.The task force also raised concern over the anti-corruption agency s wanting performance in executing the cases, in particular, convictions.Graft cases reported to the commission for investigations rose to 1,950 from 1,424 between 2011 and 2014. Cases forwarded to the DPP s office by EACC have also increased from 70 to 109 between 2011 and 2014. Out of these cases, EACC was able to obtain eight convictions in 2011-12, one conviction in 2012-13 and three convictions in 2013-14. The number of convictions within three years has dropped. The commission should work with the DPP to ensure that cases forwarded to it are dealt with expeditiously, the task force recommends.The proposal to deny Parliament the role of interrogating audit reports has been criticised by MPs, especially members of two parliamentary watchdog committees the Public Accounts and Public Investments committees.Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung wa told the Star Parliament cannot be bypassed in its constitutional role of scrutinising audit reports.The PIC vice chairman said Parliament is more effective in the fight against graft than the EACC, which is plagued with leadership conflict. EACC has actually been the biggest impediment to the fight against corruption because cases remain there and wait for years, he said.