Isiolo residents say the new international airport in the town will bring development, open markets and transform lives.The airport will open next month for flight testing of its expanded 3,000-metre runway. Previously, it was a 1,400m runway airstrip.It is capable of handling large aircraft that can reach Middle East markets in four hours. They include Airbus A300 to A380 and Boeing 747 to 787.The date of operational opening has not been set.Even before construction ends, many life-changing projects are coming up.Residents say since the project kicked off, most of them now connected to electricity, roads have been paved and high-rise buildings are coming up.The residents say a camel-and-cow-milk processing plant and a modern abattoir are being constructed by donors.They say air transport will help them transport dairy and beef products faster to the market. Transporting the milk to Nairobi by road sometimes makes it go bad. Having an airport is the best thing we can ever have, camel farmer Halima Hassan said.Robert Kimathi, who has lived in the area for three years, says water scarcity has been the greatest problem, but a water company now supplies water to households. We know the Water Company is here to serve the airport, he said.Resident Peter Ekuwam said, I have mixed feelings. Change is good, but then, we were used to a simple lifestyle, and we do not know what the airport will bring us. Airport manager Mohammad Lippi said the airport will enable the Isiolo and Meru communities to take their products to market. The first beneficiaries will be pastoralists and miraa farmers, he said.Lippi said though development projects are fast coming up in the area, most residents do not know what having an international airport means. For this reason, I am urging the Isiolo and Meru governments to hold a business forum to inform residents of the benefits, he said.Lippi said Isiolo will never be the same if the airport is exploited fully. Do you know the huge demand for dairy products and meat in the Middle East? We can supply them with fresh produce, he said. Egypt is about four hours flight from here. That is how fast they can get camel milk from here. That s the same time to get to Nairobi by road. The Isiolo airport is part of the Lapsset project. It will open up the northern corridor for projects, including electrification, highways, oil pipelines, resort cities and airports.Qamdo Bamda Airport in China has the longest paved runway at 5,500m.However, there are longer unpaved runways such as that of the US Edwards Air Force Base at 12,070m. Jomo Kenyatta International Airport s runway is 4,117m.