The image of Bifwoli Wakoli yelling all over Parliament remains etched in the minds of many Kenyans who saw that scene repeatedly on their TV screens, even though it took place more than 10 years ago. Awori is a dictator, Wakoli screamed, as he walked across the length and breadth of parliament buildings, much to the consternation of the press corps gathered to cover the day s proceedings.Whether it was anger or comedy remains unclear, and the man himself remains guarded on his unusual action to this day.The bone of contention was the bungled nomination of Kenyan members of the second East African Legislative Assembly (EALA) in 2006.Powerful individuals within Narc had settled on the ruling coalition nominees without much consultation among the MPs. The yelling had nothing personal against Awori. I was merely doing my job in the best way I could do in the circumstances, Wakoli, then Bumula MP, reminisces.He was the Ford-Kenya chief whip at the time.The party had settled on Gervase Akhaabi as its nominee who was, however, omitted from the final list. Awori, summoned a meeting of the coalition s leadership to explain the list. He walked in, read the names and when Ford-Kenya demanded an explanation, he ignored us and walked out on me. That is when I started yelling, Wakoli says.Whatever you may say about Wakoli, he is satisfied that the yelling proved effective.Awori amended the list and Akhaabi s name was included. I have nothing against Awori but the yelling saved the situation for my party. Wakoli says that politics was never of much interest to him initially. I wanted to be a priest largely because of the adverse conditions of life that I was raised in. He joined the seminary to achieve his dream. At Form Three, he was suspended for a year due to indiscipline. He joined another school, but returned to the seminary as soon as the suspension ended just to be closer to God.Yet, even with this dedication he didn t end up as a priest. Many are called, but few are chosen, he now says. God called me but at one point decided that he didn t want me. I accepted it as part of his will. After losing the Bumula seat in 2013, he contested the Bungoma senatorial by-election the same year but lost to Moses Wetangula.He plans to regain the Bumula Parliamentary seat in 2017.******1952: Born in Bumula, Bungoma County.1959: Started formal education at Netima RC and Buluma Primary Schools until class four. Transferred to St Peter s Seminary in class five from where he completed his Form four1964: St Peters Seminary did his (EACE) in 1972.1973: Kaimosi Teacher Training College (P1 Grade) graduated in 1975.1976: Teacher Service Commission, Teacher, served at Napwa and then Luyia Primary Schools. He was later promoted to deputy head in 1981 and posted to Lurende Primary School.1983: Head teacher, Kassos Primary School,1988: Kenya National Union of Teachers, Branch vice- Chairman and rose to chairman in 1989.1996: Kenya National Union of teachers, Executive Secretary2002: Elected MP for Bumula on Ford Kenya ticket. And went on to be reelected in 2007.2008: Ministry of Lands, Assistant Minister.2010: Kampala International University, Bachelor of Arts, Conflict Management graduated in 2013, the same year he lost his seat.2015: Kibabii University, Master of Arts, Religious philosophy, to graduate in December 2016.Quotes2011: My quest for this country s presidency is very serious. I am currently writing my manifesto and will launch it in September. People ask me whether I have the financial muscle to mount a campaign of such magnitude. I don t. I am running to prove that it is possible to divorce money from running for elective offices. 2012: Being a presidential contender does not mean you see your competitors as enemies. I go to their meetings simply because there are crowds there. I have also been attending Prime Minister Raila Odinga s rallies and reminding him that Wakoli, too, is in the race. 