The Central Bank yesterday said it will investigate the continued slowdown in growth of loans in the private sector, a trend which could hurt economy.Tuesday's 50-basis point reduction in the Central Bank Rate to 10 per cent, governor Patrick Njoroge said, may not reverse the worrying trend that became clearer in June. The probe will establish whether or not the dip in credit growth, which started before the interest controls era kicked in last week, is systematic to the industry.Credit to the private sector rose by a dismal 8.6 per cent in June year-on-year, much slower than the CBK's target of 15.3 per cent, and slowed further to 7.07 per cent in July. Tightening of rules on provisions against bad debt and extending payment period for suppliers are all possibilities, Njoroge said. He, however, ruled out slowdown in the economy, citing the surprise 5.8 per cent growth in the first quarter.The regulator is yet to pin the trend to particular reasons or institutions. We need to go and investigate and see who actually has done what, Njoroge said at a press conference. We began to see this trend since June when it became much clearer although there was some sort of deviation earlier in the year. With the CBR as base, the lenders are restricted to a maximum of 14 per cent interest charge on loans and a minimum interest of seven per cent on term deposits, thanks to the Banking (Amendment) Act 2016, gazetted on August 31. The drop in interest from an average of 17.7 per cent may, nonetheless, not be a catalyst for increased growth in credit as would be the case in the absence of interest caps. Some lenders may, as an extreme measure, cut off borrowers whose risk profile is outside the four per cent provided in the law. We will implement the law (but) it has complicated monetary policy, Njoroge said. What I cannot do is to tell you that banks will behave in a particular way; but there's that risk and this is why it's unclear which way things will go. Kenya's spreads of 11 to 12 per cent, which is half of her peers, and a return on equity as high as 30 per cent also half her peers like South Africa's 15 to 17 per cent made a strong case for lower interest rates, the governor said. But capping interest rates risks damaging the Kenyan economy and stunting credit growth, a danger not lost to officials at the country's central bank and finance ministry, who opposed the measure, Bloomberg's Lionel Laurent wrote in outlook on Kenya post-interest caps. If banks stop catering to anyone but the safest credit risk, it may encourage shadow banks or dodgy lenders to step in. 