Western Stima coach Omino tells off criticsAfter seeing his team notch three wins on the bounce Western Stima coach Henry Omino says his charges deserve to be respected, particularly this season, and that people should now stop viewing us as underdogs .Omino, whose impressive power men currently sit pretty in third position on the SportPesa Premier League table, feels they have not been accorded the respect they deserve, that is commensurate to their performance. It is obvious that the team has performed well this season, but somehow people still don t regard us as a strong team. We have beaten several big teams yet when I follow commentaries in the media, I get the feeling we are still considered underdogs, the experienced coach said on the KPL official portal We are playing Gor Mahia in our next match and people are already saying they are our big brothers. That we always donate points to them. Don t they know that allowing your opponent to beat you is a crime under the Fifa laws? he added.Stima face the defending champions on October 12 when the league resumes after a two-week break.The powermen are enjoying one of their best seasons since joining the top flight competition. In fact,they stand a mathematical chance of bagging their maiden league title.Omino s team have won 10 of their 25 games so far this season. This despite olosing their dependable striker Baron Oketch to Gor Mahia in the mid season transfer window.Although the power men have won only one of their last 13 encounters with K Ogalo, Omino believes the stakes are different now, and he has promised to pull all the stops to down the 15-time champions. Everything is different now. Of course history and statistics play a role in any game, but so does form. Right now the players are in good shape and I know that they are capable of collecting points from any team. I know that Gor are a good side, but we are also a good side. We want to come out on the winning end, he said. Stima now in third with five matches left to go are just eight points adrift of league leaders Tusker