Everyone is anxiously waiting for the day, stunning fashion blogger, Sharon Mundia will say, "I do" to her fianc Lonina.The two were engaged in an elaborate series of events that got many Nairobi woman and even men, turn green with envy. The engagement story was such a hit that it trended for days on social media with photos from the event going viral.Sharon Mundia opened up to her diehard fans in a video interview where she talked about her upcoming wedding that is set for later this year.She said, "I'm not married yet, though I have seen tweets online saying that I'm married or I'm not getting married or just crazy things. I'm not married yet. I have had my traditional ceremonies but not the main ceremony and it is going to be later this year." Sharon who is known to her fans as This Is Ess added, "I'm not going to share my wedding date but it is later this year."So, is she pregnant? One of her fans asked.A shocked Sharon looked straight at the camera and asked, "Do I look pregnant?"The fashion blogger also revealed details of how she meet her prince charming."We meet through my best friend Mundi who is going to be my maid of honour as well. He is a really cool fun, funny, emotional, giving, kind and confident guy. Oh man! is he confident. If you have ever meet his, he is incredibly confident," Sharon Gushed.With the wedding heading closer and closer to fruition, Sharon said the "planning is going well. I have been swamped with the wedding planning and I have just gotten into it for some time now. I just wasn't interested but now it's going good."She however reveled that she is struggling with sharing details of her big day.Sharon was very candid and honest with her fans telling them that they will have to make do without details of the wedding because she is not comfortable releasing them.Here is her take on the matter."Okay, so I have gotten a lot of questions about this wedding and giving updates. I feel bad because I know I started thinking and saying I would share updates but then things changed after I shared my engagement story and then people just...I don't know, the reactions that came about after. It made me nervous. It scared me. It made me feel like perhaps i was sharing too much because I was just sharing with the people who usually read my blog. But then it became this huge bonanza and i felt it was this big thing i couldn't control any more. It made me feel very nervous. So the idea of sharing no longer seemed appealing to me I decided never to share anything personal ever again because it is just too much but a part of me still wants to share in hopes that it wouldn't receive the kind of attention it did and that people would just have moved on with their lives and wouldn't care anymore. But I'm just too nervous, I don't know what to share," Sharon concluded.