Governors from Rift Valley are unhappy with some politicians from the region. Reason? The politicos have formed a habit of asking for cash donations from them every week. One of the governors whispered to Corridors the situation is so bad they are now avoiding the politicians, some of whom use Deputy President William Ruto's name to extort the governors. The politicians call the governors regularly to ask for harambee donations and the county bosses who do not give them money are threatened with consequences . Interestingly, the politicos either keep half the cash for themselves or all of it.********A Cabinet Secretary whose docket is under scrutiny for failing to account for billions of shillings has shocked many with his level of arrogance. Whenever inquisitive journalists question his ministry's expenditure and, or confront him with the facts, the minister calls them terrible names and does so at length and in no hurry. His vocabulary of insults is extensive. This dismissive CS recently told off a journalist and banged the door of his GK vehicle when other reporters sought answers from him regarding finances in his docket. Instead of stepping out to answer the barrage of questions, the CS ordered his driver to speed off as soon as he banged the car door with all his might.*******A former TNA top employee and staunch Jubilee supporter attached to Igad was forced to pull down her Facebook post after Kenyans on social media protested against her calls to do away with the Nairobi National Park. She said the park was redundant and not important to Kenyans. Little did she know that Kenyans had already taken the screenshots of her update. While she holds a senior position at Igad, it is high time the regional body stated its position on conservation of wildlife and the nation's heritage of splendour.********Two would-be power-brokers within the ruling Jubilee alliance are positioning themselves and scheming how they will mint millions from the party primaries once the new Jubilee Party is unveiled next month. With JP expected to be crowded as aspirants scramble for its ticket, the duo is already meeting a long queue of people within the city, ostensibly to lobby for them to be made interim officials across the country. During a meeting held at a Nairobi hotel last week, the two self-anointed JP coordinators asked for as much as Sh5,000 per attendee as 'facilitation and branding expenditure', on the pretext that they will soon arrange a meeting with the Steering Committee before appointment letters are issued. Well, who has given these two flamboyant wannabe movers and shakers the authority to misuse the Jubilee Party name and in the process terrorise and harass desperate ticket hopefuls for money?