The Kisii County Public Service Board has no database of its employees, a report released by the EACC shows.The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission indicates the board failed to avail the database, when it was requested to do so. Failure to have an employee database makes it difficult for the County Public Service Board to supervise the staff. It also opens loopholes that can lead to the possibility of paying ghost workers and fraud, the report says. EACC deputy secretary and CEO Michael Mubea presented the report on Wednesday to the Kisii assembly.He was presenting the Corruption Risk Assessment Reports for the Kisii executive and the county assembly.The report indicated that 10 people were recruited by the executive, because of the influence of their relatives who work there. Our team came across minutes of the CPSB dated May 13, in which requests had been tabled for consideration for employment of 10 people, Mubea said. This is tantamount to canvassing and is a loophole for recruitment without due consideration of their skills and competence. Mubea also ordered women MCAs to refund sitting allowances they received when they were on maternity leave.He said in the months of September, October and November last year, all members were paid maximum sitting allowances, yet some were on maternity leave. The CEO said the team, that wrote the report also noted that registers with inconsistent signatures and adjourned plenary sittings were used to support payments. I am directing that all county assembly members who received sittings allowances in the said months when they were on maternity leave to refund the money immediately, Mubea said.He singled out a case where the plenary registers for July 8 and 28 last year had varying signatures for individual members, which were questioned in a letter dated November 2015.Mubea said the irregularities were loopholes that can lead to loss of resources.Irregularities are rife in both the county executive and assembly Procurement departments, Mubea said.Mubea was accompanied by the commission s Director of Preventive Services Vincent Okong o.Deputy Governor Joash Maangi said they will act on the report within the period the EACC gave them. He praised the commission for highlighting the problem.