The search for the fairest of them all has been taken to the masses. Online. That is where everyone is. The next Mr and Miss World Kenya will submit their applications on the Miss World Kenya website from any location across the country to be shortlisted for the prestigious title. Applicants have until October 15th to submit their entries.Gaming platform mCHEZA in conjunction with Ashleys Kenya Limited, has announced sponsorship of the search of Mr and Miss World Kenya 2017 which will be going digital for the first time in the pageant s history in the country.Speaking during a glamorous cocktail themed Beauty with a Purpose to officially launch the revamped website, mCHEZA Chief Executive Officer Peter Karimi termed the sponsorship as a bold step in expanding the scope of engagement for the brand to a wider digital engagement and gaming experience. He added that the sponsorship also aligned with the organization s move to support and nurture young talent. The mCHEZA online platform is creating a positive buzz, as an all-inclusive site that offers an exceptional gaming experience. We are expanding our scope offering select political outrights to engage with customers who have a keen interest in the ongoing presidential contest in the United States. The engagement with Mr and Miss World Kenya is an invite to our customers to experience the fun in the search for the next Mr and Miss World Kenya 2017. It is a new way to engage with our customers in the digital space, as we expand the scope of the mCHEZA brand with some new services that will be on the market soon," noted Peter. Nurturing talent is a key pillar to our business, and today we are giving the youth who qualify to be Mr and Miss World Kenya the chance to showcase their talent and represent this beautiful nation, in addition the Beauty with a Purpose theme adds incredible value to individual participants and society at large and this is key for mCHEZA, he added.While thanking the sponsors and partners, Miss World Kenya franchise director and Ashley s Kenya CEO, Terry Mungai highlighted that the move to going digital would set the pace for the rest of the world to emulate, and called for more youth to participate in the competition. The Mr and Miss World Kenya title is an ambassadorial position, in which we enable our youth to represent this great nation in the beauty contests. We are proud to have Mr Africa hailing from Kenya, and we would like to set the trend for the rest of the world in taking our search to the digital space, said Terry.She added, Through the Miss World Kenya franchise, we encourage the youth to use their beauty to change the community. Kenya is one of the most favoured nations to have won in the Beauty with a Purpose category and thus also breaking the record by winning twice in a short succession of time, which has as a result, attracted the Miss World investments to Kenya. Principal secretary for gender affairs at the ministry of public service, youth and gender affairs Zeinab Hussein, who was among the chief guests commended the franchise for mentoring and molding responsible youth in the society, and urged for their support in creating awareness on Female Genital Mutilation. There are many areas that the Miss World Kenya franchise can consider working with us in advancing our national priorities on gender equality and the empowerment of women such as Ending Gender based violence, as well championing the HeforShe campaign in Kenya. I m confident that our partnership will contribute to the achievement of our shared goal of making Kenya a better place for each and every person," she said.These sentiments were echoed by United Nations Resident Coordinator Siddharth Chatterjee. Who noted that the UN team will be training Mr and Miss World Kenya on global issues in a bid to empower them to shape critical agendas in the rest of the world."When we compare the mean age of various countries in the world, Kenya has some of the youngest generation,at an average of 19 years. This is great potential we have seen, and as the UN we will train Mr and Miss World Kenya on how to address global issues such as the end of FGM," he said.On her part, MIMI Holdings Limited Director Julie Gichuru also announced the opportunity for KENYA couture designs to be exclusively featured at this years Miss World global charity ball. Local designers who expressed interest are already putting together the couture dresses to be strutted during the Miss World competition on December 20, 2016 in Washington DC.So far 15 designers have been shortlisted including Arnold Mureithi, Elsie Gachacha, Melodi Mazola and Iscah Tuzo. This effort is being supported by MIMI fashion store and Ashleys Kenya. It is a great honour for KENYA to have been invited to dress the Miss World contestants, which creates an opportunity for us to develop a vibrant and sustainable fashion industry whilst also building Brand Kenya, noted Julie.The search for the next year s Mr and Miss World Kenya is part of the country s bid to host the Miss World competition in the near future. This will in turn attract international participation and inject billions into Kenya s economy through the enhanced tourist numbers driven by the event.Check out the photos from the glamorous cocktail party.Miss World Kenya 2016 Evelyn Wambui.Mr. Kenya Africa Kevin Owiti.Scott the Violinist and Eddie Grey entertain the guests.Miss World Kenya 2007 Ruth Kinuthia with the current Miss World Kenya Evelyn Wambui.K24's Karen Karimi, Radio Host Amina Abdi and Royal Media's Mumbi WaruiPHOTOS/MOSES MWANGI