Chelsea Vs Leicester Saturday 230pmMy Prediction: The Blues 2-1 The FoxesBoth Chelsea and Leicester are having the kind of season that they d rather forget quickly but it s still early days so there s no time to give up. In the seven matches played; Chelsea have won four, lost two and drawn one while the defending champions have just two wins since the season started. To think that they lost just three games last season and already they re lost three just seven matches in shows that tables have surely turned. Last season Chelsea failed to beat them at all but Antonio Conte knows that he needs to get his season on track if he s to impress in his first term. Although he did recently say that it will take time for the team to play the way he wants them to. I just hope Roman Abramovich has the patience for that. The Blues have the pedigree to deliver and Diego Costa is in fine form. The two games they ve lost this season have been to an inform Liverpool and a sparkling Arsenal. I don t think Claudio Ranieri side; who currently look a little lost; will do any damage at Stamford Bridge. My money is on a narrow Blues win. Arsenal Vs Swansea 5pmMy Prediction: The Gunners 3-0 The SwansOh what a time to be playing Swansea; when Arsenal are in fine form and the Swans are suffering. I m happy they are suffering given that they kind messed up the Gunners season last term. That 2-1 loss to Swansea at Emirates in March was tough to swallow. Swansea won their opening game of the season against Burnley but have since dropped to just above the relegation zone follow five losses and a draw. They are doing so badly that Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger can even put forward a really average side and still get results. Okay let me stop talking badly. Swansea now have American Bob Bradley in charge and he has promised a fresh start for the Swans but he ll have to wait a week or so to get points. Wenger needs to put the strongest side we have and ensure those three points remain with us. We were playing beautifully before the international break and since don t have any serious fresh injuries the beauty needs to continue. Theo Walcott says he s out to reward everyone who never lost faith in him even during his non scoring days and I have faith that he will continue to deliver this season. Why am I bothering to go on and on about this game when I can just call it; place a bet and win big! Liverpool Vs Manchester United Monday 10pmMy Prediction: The Reds 2-1 The Red DevilsIf all goes well; and there s every indication that it will; I will be watching this game at Anfield on Monday. Yes, that s how I roll! Come on! It s a nice game to watch because I really have not vested interest in these two teams although I do wish there was a way that both could lose. When my fellow Gunners asked who I would be supporting here; I said I would gun for a draw. But they said we should hope for a United win because Liverpool was more of a threat to Arsenal this season. But I still want a draw so that both sides can be slowed down a little; besides; I don t think I could ever want a United win. That said: given the form that the sides are in; Liverpool looks more likely to take the three points here because of the way that they are playing. They ve lost just one game so far this season and not since the second round of games when they were shocked 2-0 by Burnley. Ever since then Jurgen Klopp has turned things around at the Kop and they re looking good. Man United meanwhile look a little disjointed. They drew their last league game against Stoke City and that was after a 4-1 drubbing by Leicester. Jose Mourinho is finding this tough this time around and despite what I want; I think he s in for a rough night in Liverpool.