Interest controls have more benefits to the economy than risks in the short to medium-term, investment analysts at Britam Assets Managers projected yesterday. The regime's success is, however, largely dependent on the National Treasury cutting government expenditure to ease pressure on domestic borrowing estimated at Sh229 billion this financial year. The Treasury should also speed up payments to suppliers and contractors to avoid delays, which pushed up bad debt to Sh176 billion in March. Banks are forced to provide for these debts. If they streamline the way they do procurement and honour payments on time, banks will assess credit quality (of government suppliers) better, and extend to them loans without worrying about delays, Britam chief investment officer Elizabeth Irungu said. The regulator, Central Bank of Kenya, should streamline the interbank market to ensure even distribution of cash among the 42 banks in operation. The market is presently skewed towards the seven large banks, which control 58.2 per cent of assets, and lend amongst themselves, locking out smaller ones perceived to be riskier. Key benefits of the interest caps and floors regime will include increased profit for non-bank firms due to reduced cost of operating capital, which may support their expansion strategies, Britam analysts said. The banks will look to cross-sell products like insurance to grow non-funded income streams thus helping drive penetration from the prevailing 2.8 per cent of the gross domestic product.Building and construction sector may benefit from expected growth in the dismally performing mortgage segment, which had 24,458 accounts in December 2015. National savings might pick up gradually towards the Vision 2030's target of 30 per cent on increased interest on deposits. Techpreneurs may get opportunities in innovative products that banks are likely to adopt. Banks are going to become very innovative. They are going to use their young workforce to innovate and bring new products that are relevant to the market and therefore help them recoup earnings that have been taken away after interest caps, Irungu said. Britam analysts are, however, worried motivation towards long-term lending may slow due to risks involved, with credit rationing also likely for riskier borrowers. Large banks are better positioned to weather the interest caps storm due to economies of scale, building a case for consolidation among smaller lenders in the near to medium term. It is the large banks who will be able to adjust easier to interest rate capping relative to smaller banks, Britam chief executive officer Kenneth Kaniu said. "Smaller banks tends to deal more with niche market which has higher risk borrowers."