Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana has denied making remarks insinuating that Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka could be contemplating leading the Kamba community into Jubilee.Kibwana was quoted in a newspaper saying that Kalonzo had told the Ukambani regional leaders that he would not wish the community to be in the opposition after next year s general elections. The story was written by DP William Ruto s press office Kibwana said on Wednesday that he was falsely quoted in the story and denied that the Kamba community is ready to negotiate with the Jubilee administration. He also denied making utterances that Kalonzo had said he has options in terms of political affiliations.[VIDEO] DP Ruto asks Ukambani to pray for their 'lost son' Kalonzo The leadership of the Kamba community, to my knowledge, has not met to develop a consensus on joining the Jubilee Party. So I could not and did not say the community is gearing to negotiate with the Jubilee Party," he said. I said that Kamba leaders, I included were poor in negotiating or lobbying for developments whether inside or outside a government and that partly accounted for the region s low level of development. Kibwana said he and Ruto had an excellent tour which addressed development issues. Read: Ruto Makueni tour may reignite Kibwana, Speaker Ngelu rivalryHe said he understood Ruto s vigour because Kenya is a democratic country. We warmly welcomed the DP and told him that we look forward to the President s development tour of the region. I made it clear that Makueni County has a Muungano Party government. Muungano party, as is common knowledge, is an affiliate of Cord fraternity, he said.Also read: Ruto urges Kambas to support Jubilee, says Cord has no agenda"I also stated that Kalonzo had not told us what other options he had in mind and we can t guess him," Kibwana added. The Governor said that he largely dwelt on developments matters during the two meetings in Emali and Kibwezi with Ruto. Ruto was touring the county to open the Makueni Agribusiness Chain Centre in Kibwezi West constituency. The DP appealed to the community to ditch the opposition for the Jubilee. Two MPs from the county - Regina Ndambuki and Richard Makenga of Kilome and Kaiti respectively - have ditched Wiper for Jubilee.But Makueni MP Daniel Maanzo said Ruto's political basket returned empty. Maanzo said the Kamba community is steadfast in its position against the Jubilee government and is in Cord to stay.