Think big is a sexy concept. The message fuels our courage to think beyond our limits and find ways to move forward into greater things. It has a charge to it; an emotional push that s tangible to the mind. Those two words make us want to act to do it now and do it big. They are powerful words. However, a big thought is made up of small steps; the way to achieve the big idea is to start small. It contradicts the initial message. Starting small is a downer; it lacks the think big energy. Generally, we don t like to start small. Despite how it feels, life often demands that our dreams start small. Many success stories started as simple steps. If this is the case, how do we enhance our skill in this area? The first stepOne of the biggest challenges in starting small is the mental acceptance that it s important. If this battle isn t won, you could be trapped by your big thoughts with little or no action. So the first step is to acknowledge, accept and be willing to take baby steps. When this occurs, you are half way through your goals. The next easy stepOnce you have come to terms with starting small, you are now ready to explore baby steps. Here, you start breaking down this big thought into small elements by making a list of the necessary steps that you must take to make it happen. Based on your list, what s the next easy step? Can you do it? As you move step by step, you build momentum and gain strength. Each step makes you stronger for the next. Celebrate small wins Every small step that you take successfully is a big win. Celebrate it. It may look insignificant at the moment, but don t let it fool you. It s major. Treat it as such. In aggregate, these small wins become your real wealth. As you bag each one, you gain deep knowledge of the success process now, that s the real power.Stay on itTo birth ideas, you have to think like a farmer. This means patiently going through the processes of each step. Farmers work their land, weed, tend, harvest and manage the farm. They are in it for the long haul. So, stay on it. You can t give up or get discouraged by the nature of small starts. They may not be as exciting as the big thought, but they are effective.Twitter: @SamuelMpamugoBlog: theyouideology.com