As if customs denying them rights to land are not bad enough, women in the country have to deal with laws and policies that violate their entitlement to landownership.This prompted 45 women representatives to sign a charter calling for reforms to grant them equal rights to land.They presented the Rural Women Land Rights Charter of Demands to Lands CS Jacob Kaimenyi in Nairobi yesterday. Kaimenyi said the Lands ministry will implement Chapter 60 of the constitution on land governance to address women s grievances on land ownership.The CS said women should use the existing laws in incidents where customs are used by certain communities to deny them equal rights. You must fight for your rights. Nobody is going to give you anything kienyeji, he said.Ten demandsThe rights charter contains 10 key demands relating to women s land ownership rights.They range from calls for reforms on policies and legal provisions violating women s rights to land ownership, as contained in the matrimonial Property Act 2013 and the recently assented Land Amendment Act 2015.The charter also demands for joint titles bearing the names of both spouses on matrimonial property, and that affirmative action be applied to ensure 60 per cent of direct beneficiaries of settlement schemes are women.The Lands mnistry is also urged to organise awareness and education programmes on policies and laws that contain specific bias towards women on property and natural resource rights. As a matter of priority, the government should simplify land titling process. It should decentralise and make information available in local languages, read the charter.Other demands are the social inclusion of women living with disabilities or HIV-Aids in land governance, including having titles in Braille format for the blind.The charter also demands the protection of land rights activists involved in advancing women s rights to land ownership. The government should join our efforts to end illegal and militia-type harassment and threats to women in pursuit of individual or collective land rights. Parliament should enact laws to protect women pursuing legitimate land rights and the human rights defenders supporting them in this course, read the charter.They also want the two-thirds gender rule applied during the constitution of land boards to guarantee women fairness during conflict resolution.The women said their demands are anchored on legal provisions in the constitution and legislations on land.They cited Article 27( 3 ) of the constitution, which provides for equal treatment of men and women on political, economic, cultural and social spheres. They also cited Article 68, which requires Parliament to enact laws to protect women rights to matrimonial home upon divorce.Attitude problemHowever, National Land Commission chairman Muhammad Swazuri said most of the demands are already catered for, either in the National Land Policy, the constitution or other land laws. The main problem here is implementation, Swazuri said. He called on women to change their approach to airing their grievances by involving men. Let s concentrate more on the obstacles making implementation difficult, and these are attitudes. In many places we have been to, when we ask women what they want, they say I m okay with what my husband will say , Swazuri said.ActionAid Kenya Executive director Bijay Kumar, who has been helping women groups on land issues, said some 300 women at a settlement scheme in Mombasa county are holders of title deeds but they don t actually own land. And there are a few more where the same land was given to more than one person. We have brought that to the notice of the government, and we hope that something will be done, Kumar said.TestimoniesParticipants at the event also shared their experiences and the difficulties they have undergone, especially after the deaths of their husbands. Our main problem is cultural beliefs. We urge that our names and those of our husbands be put on titles, because we were chased away when our husbands died. We need the titles to protect the rights of our children, said Mary Saleka from Taita Taveta.Trevenia Mwamburi from Kilifi said: Where I come from, some salt processing companies grabbed our community land and chased us away. We have suffered for long to reclaim ownership, but you can imagine us fighting with stones and them with bullets. They have also polluted our clean water sources by dumping salt in them, so we are forced to buy drinking water daily. Naka Keto from Uganda said: I am a widow with six children and I have been HIV-positive since 1993. When my husband died, my in-laws sold his car, saying he had a debt. After a while, they chased me away from my farm. I went to court but then the court officers were compromised. My in-laws then cut down my bananas in my farm. Climbing mt kilimanjaroRuth Angwa Masime from ActionAid said they have organised a campaign trip to Arusha, Tanzania, called the Kilimanjaro Initiative, through which the women will seek to demonstrate the oppression they have faced in land ownership.The convoy, consisting of women from at least 27 African countries, left Nairobi yesterday after presenting the charter of demands to Kaimenyi.The journey will culminate in climbing of Mount Kilimanjaro, in a campaign the organisers hope will make African governments take notice and protect women s rights to land ownership. The women decided they will climb the highest mountain in Africa to declare their charter of demands and say we need something to be done, and we need it to be done now, said Masime.Kaimenyi said the charter demands are legitimate and that he will do his best to gradually implement them in line with the existing laws. Swazuri and I agreed that we shall use traditional dispute resolution mechanisms. His responsibility is oversight and he must, therefore, make sure that those village councils do things the right way, Kaimenyi said.Apart from the constitution and the National Lands Act, there are international laws and agreements that guarantee women equitable land ownership. They include the AU Specialised Technical Committee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Water and Environment. The team endorsed a decision in October last year recommending that member states move towards allocation of 30 per cent of land to women to improve the rights of women to land through laws and other means.Article 7 of the Maputo Protocol also stipulates that state parties shall enact appropriate legislation to ensure men and women enjoy equal rights in case of separation, divorce or annulment of marriage. The other is the Beijing Platform of Action, which removes obstacles to women s access to affordable land and housing.