Many land grabbers have flocked to Thika since the launch of the Thika Bypass in May, angering residents.The Bypass is set to cross through Broadway-Kiandutu-Athena-Engen-Kiganjo and Muthaiga.Residents said cartels of land brokers and grabbers have been targeting prime plots that are yet to be developed. They forge ownership documents and sell the land, they said.Kiganjo East resident Mary Mburu, a member of the Maasai Village Women s Self-help Group, told the Star on Tuesday that her two plots are on the verge of being grabbed after a group emerged, claiming to own the land.Her plots are part of some five acres the group says it owns.Mburu said she has lived on the land for more than 30 years and questioned why the group surfaced only when the area started developing and construction started. They are saying that they are a group of teachers from Nyeri and that they have all requisite documents proving ownership of the land. We are privy to information that cartels are all over this place. They will take what is rightfully mine over my dead body, she said.Mburu said the cartels are drooling over the land because it has appreciated in value in the last four months.Resident James Kiarie said, Whoever will be sold land in Kiang ombe by these crooks will be conned and will have themselves to blame for their loss. Residents said most of them are vulnerable because they do not have title deeds.Maasai Women s Self-Help Group chairman Peter Ndukuthyo said the government gave them the land in 1990 as a reward for supporting it.The teachers group is not genuine and only wants to grab the squatters land, he said. In their documents the survey map clearly indicates that the land they are claiming to be theirs is block No 39 which is more than 10km from our land. Our land is block No 4. We won t be intimidated by their greedy motives and we will soldier on until we acquire the title deeds, Ndukuthyo said.They urged the government to give them title deeds and ward off the land grabbers. We wish that the CS [Lands CS Jacob Kaimenyi] can come here in person and witness what we are going through. All these conflicts will end when title deeds will be issued to residents who are the legitimate owners of the land, resident Patrick Maina said.