Some top Jubilee politicians who have been fronting Water CS Eugene Wamalwa to run for Nairobi governor appear to have changed their mind. One of them was overheard saying the change of heart was informed by the realisation that Wamalwa wanted to become Nairobi governor to use it as a launch pad for his presidential bid in 2022, a situation, he said, could ruin Deputy President William Ruto s chances.=== Kabete MP Ferdinard Waititu was overheard on Friday telling some of his colleagues not to underestimate TNA chairman Johnson Sakaja on his bid for Nairobi governor. The two had joined other Jubilee leaders in Kayole, where they handed over a new matatu to a businesswoman whose vehicle was burnt during an anti-IEBC protest. I think you must stop saying these are your people, Waititu told Dagoretti South MP Dennis Waweru and former Starehe MP Margaret Wanjiru, who have been riding on renewed efforts to have a Kikuyu take over as Nairobi governor.=== Second-hand suits are not known for honourable MPs or waheshimiwa . The belief is that they should have a classy lifestyle. But one legislator from Central, who is serving his first term in Parliament, has become a disgrace to his colleagues. Some MPs think he does not cut a fugure of an honourable member of the august House. Reason? He wears second-hand suits. It is said he obtains them cheaply from Eastleigh, without due regard to his social and public standing. One of his colleagues recently told him to his face he needs to change his wardrobe because the quality of his attires is demeaning. Ehee Mheshimiwa, you can improve on your suits even if it means saving on the committee allowances. The flamboyant MP asked his colleague at the corridors of Parliament.=== A deputy governor from Western finds himself out of the frying pan into the fire after his attempts to marry a third wife hit a snag. This happened after his two wives conspired to teach the would-be wife a lesson at a luxurious hotel in Nairobi. The deputy county boss, who has literally relocated to Nairobi, rarely goes back to his home county, where his two wives stay. He spends most of his time in the company of the third wife . His problems worsened when the two wives travelled from upcountry without alerting him and headed to a high-end hotel in the capital where they viciously beat up their co-wife . Their husband took off. Security guards went to the rescue of the woman before the situation got out of hand.=== A flamboyant governor from Nyanza is under siege. Reason? He has been using millions of county funds to finance his air travels to and from Nairobi just to get a haircut at his popular barbershop. Our mole, who obtained a receipt for the county chief s haircut, was shocked to find out the governor pays Sh50,000 per week for services he can easily get from his county residents. It is shocking he cannot employ a personal barber to groom him in the comfort of his house, thereby saving taxpayers the Sh200,000 he spends weekly.