Erick Okong o Omogeni owes everything he is today to two people.His mother, Milkah, and wife Jacqueline, both of who he describes as the two women who have made immense contribution in my life . My father died while I was in high school and the burden of keeping me in school fell squarely on my mother, says the former President of the Law Society of Kenya.His wife, who he met at the law school, has been the pillar of his family and largely accounts for the stability in his family through the solid support she has offered.At younger age, Okong o was daddy s boy; I was my father s favourite child. He made a point of moving around with me every time he was transferred from one station to another, says the lawyerOmogeni lost in his attempt to become the Nyamira senator in 2013.He is preparing the ground for another stab at the Nyamira county senate seat currently occupied by Senator Kennedy Okong o and he believes this time he will make it.Eric argues that he lost in 2013 because voters confused him for Kennedy. They voted for my opponent because of the confusion in the names. They now know the difference and there will no such mishaps again. Yet, his interest in the Senate comes at a time there is an exodus from the so-called Upper House to other elective posts.A majority of senators have expressed their interest in the governorship, while others are headed to the National Assembly because they perceive Senate as weak. Those senators planning to become governors are merely greedy to control the county funds. You don t seek leadership to control funds but rather to do something you have passion for and meets the aspirations of a leader. he says.He says senators should have stayed put to strengthen the House because it is an important element in oversight of the devolved units, instead of bolting. We shouldn t lose hope in the Senate because there is consensus across the board the new constitution has teething problems.In the broad spectrum of constitution reforms, we must seek ways of strengthening the Senate. As a lawyer, Okongo says the biggest threat to the existence of the Kenyan state is the cancer of negative ethnicity. What we have are ethnic groups competing for power. This is very dangerous. ********1970: Born in Nyamira Divison of the then Kisii district. 1977: Started schooling at Tinderet Primary in Nyamira, Kericho Primary( 1980 ) and then did his CPE at Shauri Moyo Primary School in Kisumu in 1983. 1984: Joined Isebania Secondary School in Migori for his O levels which he did in 1987. 1988: Kabianga High School for his A levels which he did in 1989. 1990: University of Nairobi, graduated with a Bachelor of Laws degree in 1993. 2007: Elected President, Law Society of Kenya. Served until 2010. During this time, he served as member of Media council, and chaired the defunct Kenya Anti corruption Commission Advisory Board. 2012: President Mwai Kibaki made him a Senior Counsel. 2013: Contested Nyamira senate seat on ODM ticket and lost to lawyer Kennedy Okongo of Ford Kenya. 2014: Jomo Kenyatta University of Advanced Technology, Master Degree in Governance and Leadership, graduated in 2015.**** 2014: I have the capacity and ability to serve in the Judicial Service Commission and represent the interest of all Kenyans especially at this time when the judiciary is undergoing transformation. Having served in the powerful positions at the anti-corruption commission and LSK and being a member of several legal professional bodies I have gained adequate experience that can help nurture the JSC to the next decade. 2016: I have paid dearly for my firm stand against corruption. As a consequence, I was denied an opportunity of becoming the EACC chair and later the National Land Commission even though I came top during the interviews. I paid the price of my firm stand against sleaze. But I have no regrets that is a small price to pay.