His date of birth is the one thing that feeds into the many disputes about who Mzee Jomo Kenyatta really was. No genealogist of good authority has established whether he was born in 1891 as claimed by some writers or the universally accepted period between 1894-6. If someone told you that James Joken was the working name of Jomo Kenyatta some 84 years ago, it would be difficult to believe. He was given that alias in the communist Soviet Union where many future African leaders and instigators were trained both in military and on social-political themes in subverting colonialism.In 1932, Kenyatta returned to Russia some three years after an earlier visit. He had gone there courtesy of the Russian s anti-imperialist international campaigns especially among Africans in Europe, to network and secretly learn the new subversion against the West. The KGB had recruited and funded his stay in Moscow. In Britain, the security services were following Jomo s every move while doing his Russia travels. Every person he met or spoke to was recorded and diplomatic texts sent over to London. At some point the British Secret Service lost interest in Kenyatta because there was little to report. For example, one of their concerns was whether he had been receiving any form of guerilla training in Russia. London was intercepting all telegrams and communication between Kenyatta and pioneer Pan-Africanists like George Pardmore. They were very pleased when Kenyatta returned to London with resentment of what he condemned as repugnant racism in the Soviet Union. They had hoped to turn him into an agent of the implementation of the African policy of the communist Comintern but this failed. It can be said with much authority that Kenyatta s first feeling of the Soviet Union was that it was a nice place to live in, a country that had the agenda of supporting freeing Africa. During his stay, the personal incidents of racial taunting and overt prejudice made him conclude that the Soviet Union was really not his cup of tea. His total rejection of communism seemed to be personal rather than ideological.In one severely cold winter month of 1932, James Joken (Kenyatta) and other fellow students who were sent to Russia by the KGB through the London networks of Padmore, expressed their displeasure of the way they were treated by the college. The students lacked adequate clothing for the Russian winter, the dormitory was absolutely cold with no heating and lacked warm running water. The food given to the Africans was very badly prepared . This petition to the authorities was signed by Joken, Joseph Bile (Morris), ITA Wallace Johnson (Wallace Daniels), Holleh Seleh Tamba (Nelson), among others. These African and African-American students were all assigned aliases by the Soviet authorities to counter and conceal their work from Western powers. Their college KUTV (Communist University of the Toilers of the East), was officially dismayed by these black students who were meant to propagate on behalf of Moscow in their respective countries.Mbiyu's influenceWhen Jomo went to Europe he hardly met many East Africans, there were very few. The well travelled Mbiyu Koinange was to join another class of Africans, the affluent sons of chiefs and kings. Mbiyu, later to become the powerful minister of state in the Office of the President, was one of the first Kenyans to be educated abroad. He attended New York s Columbia University in 1927 before moving to Britain after spending almost a decade in America. Koinange s father was a rich and powerful colonial chief, so this helped secure him an education abroad. Mbiyu was the first Kenyan to hold a university degree. He met Kenyatta after joining St John s College, Cambridge in the autumn of 1936. To mention Mbiyu here is to give a natural sequence and character of what the Kenyatta presidency was to become because as a strong ally, the chief s son commandeered many policies in government at the time. Koinange was a very individualist minded specimen, in political and economic affairs. But he shared a lot in common with Kenyatta; the entrenched belief in traditional Kikuyuism first. Koinange did not have any objection to Kenyatta s call for respect of clitoridectomy and other now vanquished Kikuyu subcultures.MisconceptionsThere are a lot of documented and tacit spoken misconceptions about Kenyatta. One of the more obvious myths was him being a natural leader. Many who observed him from the early days were not persuaded by this judgement. For example when he was a cast member in the racist colonial film, Sanders of the River, one of the lead actors, African American civil rights leader, Paul Robeson, expressed his protest and misgivings about Kenyatta. He had a genuine passionate and personal force to challenge and end the European colonial presence in Africa. But his diaspora peers, Robeson being one of them, often concluded that Jomo was rather an empty shell in advancing those objectives. Robeson was not an angel in this drama that often occurred between the American actor and the Black African extras. He sort of despised them as second class and not as ideologically black as he was.One day, after another successful premier of Sanders of the River at London s Leicester Square Theatre on April 2, 1935, Essie (Eslanda Goode) Robeson s wife, asked him why he was not joining the Africans, Jomo Kenyatta at the apartment and others where they were to stop with support actors, he simply was not interested. Kenyatta was not moved, so the rather aggressive emotional portrayal we often hear of him is not evidenced here.Paul always enjoyed Kenyatta s company but the personal embarrassment he endured starring in the film made his passiveness quite noticeable. Kenyatta wanted his friendship with Robeson to open up a possibility of carving out a career in the film industry. They were poles apart, Kenyatta visiting Robeson s book-filled house that had plenty of rooms in the Strand area of London, compared to the latter s very small bedsitter near Victoria Station. These two were not very close though as Robeson s close friends were mostly West Africans. Robeson often saw Kenyatta s friendship as opportunistic but he did not mind, they were bound as one in their ideological Pan-Africanism, Robeson being the more militant one.By the 1930s, Kenyatta and Robeson had fallen out mainly because of their difference of opinion on the Soviet Union. When Kenyatta went there, their relationship and comradeship became very sour. Robeson was very impressed by the reception he got in Russia and quite enjoyed his year long acting career there too. Jomo said opposite things about Stalin s career.Struggling travellerIn 1934, Kenyatta was one of many African students in Britain who were seriously struggling to make ends meet. In the late 30s, he had hoped that his new published account of Kikuyu life, Facing Mount Kenya would bring much needed funding. Unfortunately, luck was not on his side, it failed. The book sold very few copies.To be fair, years earlier when Kenyatta first came to England, he was only armed with a traveller s english, sufficient enough though to break the ice in an intellectual conversation articulating anti-colonialism. In his early years, Kenyatta schooled at Thogoto Mission School where he was enrolled in 1901 or close. The comprehensive education which historian ES Atieno-Odhiambo pointed out as inadequate, therefore complicated his fight against colonial dominance and persecution. In order to effectively subvert colonial supremacy inside its jurisdiction in the shires, speaker s corner in London and lobbying the corridors of power at Westminster, the language of the oppressor was invaluable. Of course being the industrial man that he was, invested more time to using the Queen Victoria s language more impressively. He stunned audiences with his elusive genteel attacks of the British colonial establishment. Some even warmed to him because he did condemn but without spitting fire as such. This was Kenyatta in his early days.