In a few days time Muslims all over the world expect to mark the end of the holy month of Ramadhan by celebrating Eid-ul-Fitr. What are the implications of this month of fasting, increased spirituality, prayers and charity to the Muslim community and indeed the wider society? There are numerous impressions of Ramadhan s legacy which can be learned and shared with other communities and the nation at large; I will discuss three important aspects. First, the month of Ramadhan communicates to us self-control and self-restraint. O ye who believe! Fasting is prescribed to you as it was prescribed to those before you, that ye may learn taqwa (piety and self-restraint) . (Quran 2:183). As Muslims refrain from eating, drinking and conjugal rights from dawn to dusk they are taught to take charge and control their physiological and biological needs in order to attain higher level of spirituality and God consciousness. In this way Ramadhan becomes a short sharp shock against what Abraham Maslow calls the deficiency needs (food, drink and physiological needs). We often take these physiological needs for granted and indeed as the English will tell you - a good thing is esteemed more in its absence then in its enjoyment.But many a times our physiological needs seem to control us rather than the other way round. The mega corruption and other economic and social crimes that we have witnessed in Kenya could be checked if people learnt and exercised more self-control. The lessons of Ramadhan thus can be a model for societal reform and renewal through exercising a more frugal and spiritual lifestyle. Secondly, through the hunger and thirst of Ramadhan the faithful are reminded of the less fortunate in society and implicitly become more caring and generous. We have seen throughout the month of Ramadhan, loads of food stuffs being distributed at various mosques yet this was not done in other months. Even the President recently zero rated dates so that people can benefit from its lower prices. If this spirit of giving and caring for the less fortunate can genuinely continue beyond this month we should be able to see the appalling gap between the rich and the poor considerably reduced in a country where civil servants have ipads that they don t know how to use even as young girls go to school without sanitary pads!Lastly as we bid farewell to this collective space and time called Ramadhan, let us remember how it has stripped us of our notions of superiority making us conscious of our own vulnerabilities while acknowledging that ultimately supremacy belongs to Allah and Allah alone.