In many cultures, childless women still suffer discrimination, stigma and ostracism.Infertility can transform from an acute, private distress into a harsh public stigma with complex and devastating consequences. With experts warning that infertility is a growing health problem, the crisis is chiefly culturally and socially created such that, even though it affects couples directly, it is the woman who bears the burden. An inability to have a child or to become pregnant can result in being greatly isolated, disinherited or assaulted. This may result in divorce or physical and psychological violence.Male causesTraditionally, infertility is often thought of as a female concern, but experts associated a third of cases to male problems, such as a low sperm count. Others include problems with the tubes carrying sperms, problems getting an erection, problems ejaculating, inflamed testes (orchitis) or a past bacterial infection that caused scarring and blocked tubes within the epididymis as it joins the vas.Other factors include having received medical treatment, such as drug treatment, radiotherapy or surgery, undescended testes or twisted testicles, genetic problems, diabetes and lifestyle factors, such as obesity or contact with chemicals or radiation. Recent research also confirm that male fertility declines with age, although the extent is not clear.The case of male infertility was brought to the limelight with the case of Jackline Mwende, who hails from Machakos county. Her husband chopped off her hands for failing to bear children after seven years of marriage, despite him being the root cause of the couple's inability to have children. Taita Taveta woman representative Joyce Lay, who visited Mwende in Machakos county, said infertility should never be a reason to separate, hurt or kill your partner. Lay has also come out publicly and opened up on a traumatising ordeal she underwent to become a parent by opting to use a surrogate mother. Lay revealed this during an interview on a local TV station. She recounted the trauma she suffered after going through surgery. I went through a hysterectomy and lost my uterus. I had to get my baby through a surrogate mother, so I went through the IVF process, she said.In-Vitro Fertilisation (IVF) is a process where you cannot conceive naturally and use a science-assisted procedure to carry your own baby, because you have complications with your womb or do not have a uterus. The embryo is transferred to another woman.Lay, the ambassador for Merck More than a Mother in Kenya, said there are many options available to manage infertility. 'Merck More than a Mother' is an initiative that aims to define interventions to reduce the stigma and social suffering of infertile women. It endeavours to empower them and raise awareness about male infertility and the necessity for a team approach to family building among couples across the continent.Before the interview, Lay had delivered an emotional speech during a debate on the IVF Bill in Parliament introduced by Mbita MP Millie Odhiambo.Other causesAccording to the World Health Organisation (WHO), lower levels of development are thought to be associated with higher levels of non-genetic and preventable causes of infertility. For instance, poor nutrition, untreated sexually transmitted infections (STIs), unsafe abortion, consequences of infections caused by female genital mutilation (FGM) or child marriage, exposure to smoking, leaded petrol and other environmental pollutants can lead to infertility.A 10-year survey carried out in northern India, which studied the lives of 1,000 men, found that various lifestyle factors are major causes of decreasing sperm count. These include: tight clothing, hot tub dips and long visits to the sauna, intensive gardening and farming resulting in pesticide exposure and increased obesity rates.Studies have also shown that most men exposed to high temperature at their workplace welders, dyers and blast furnace workers, and cement and steel factory workers are more prone to infertility. This is because the additional environmental heat increases the temperature of the scrotum, causing a negative effect on sperm production.