Robert Ayisi narrates his evolution like it happened only yesterday. He carefully recalls every bit of his life, ups and downs. After the governor, he is the next most powerful man at City Hall.A paediatrician by profession, Ayisi is the Nairobi County Secretary the equivalent of the head of public service. A son of a pyrethrum plantation worker, he was born in little-known Masienze village, Kakamega county. I believe that before I was made through my parents, God knew me and before I was born God blessed me, he says, reflectively.He was appointed to the current position in January after close to 30 years of a successful medical career, where he steered reforms at the Marsabit, Moyale and Bungoma district hospitals, before moving to the National Aids and STD Control Programme (Nascop) and later to the now-defunct Nairobi City Council as director of Medical Services. I ve done a lot since I was appointed to this job, he says of his current position. We have streamlined clearance of cheques and payment for suppliers. We are now undertaking a culture change programme to rid the county of the old Kanjo culture . We have developed a strategic plan and set our targets. We have restored order in the city. Ayisi, 59, knew he would be a doctor and a leader as early as Form Two, when he developed an interest in dissecting animals.He is a staunch Catholic and chairs the Catholic Men Association at the Holy Family Basilica, Nairobi. He openly takes pride in the fact that he has transformed hospitals wherever he has worked. The Marsabit District Hospital won an award in 1997 and a nurse in the facility was crowned the best in the region during his tenure as the medical superintendent at the facility. I was posted to the Marsabit District Hospital after my internship in Kakamega. After Marsabit, I was taken to the Moyale Sub-district Hospital as the in-charge. I steered the opening of the Moyale Sub-district Hospital. He goes on: What I remember in my life as a paeditrician is the birth of a baby who was born weighing 800 grams. There was no incubator. The mother just practised Kangaroo care , whereby the baby was placed in cotton wool. The infant survived and he is now an adult. As director of Medical Services at the Nairobi City Council, he oversaw the transformation of city hospitals. Compared to when I took over, we have more facilities, more ambulances, medical staff. The Pumwani Maternity Hospital delivers 80-100 babies a day. More than 20 facilities are operating for 24 hours a day, he says.1957: Born in Masianze village, Ikolomani, Kakamega.1965: Starts formal education at Chekondi Primary School, where he did his CPE in 19711972: Government Africa School (Kakamega School). He did his O-levels in 1975.1976: Kakamega High School, did his A-levels in 1977.1987: University of Nairobi, BSc in Child Health and Adolescence, specialised in Paediatrics.1997: Marsabit District Hospital, Medical Superintendent.2003:Nascop programme manager.2009: Director of Medical Services, Nairobi City Council.2015: Health Chief Officer, Nairobi City County.2016: Nairobi County Secretary.2015: I wish to assure the public that the Pumwani Maternity Hospital handled the matter professionally and with diligence. It is our duty and mandate to offer residents the best medical services. As we strive to do this, we urge our clients to stand for truth even in the darkest hour. 2016: We want to change the uniform of our Inspectorate staff as part of the culture change. We are in the process of issuing them {new uniforms}. Our front office staff, like the Inspectorate department, will be issued with an electronic card that uses bio data that will show that the owner of the card is the authentic owner. 2016: The rule governing transport operations and parking is one: If a county vehicle employee vehicle is found wrongfully parked, double-parked or parked in the wrong place, clamping will be done. Even the Governor normally says, If you find my driver parked in the wrong place, clamp him, give him a fine and he will be surcharged. This is no joke . 