Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago yesterday received a heroic welcome in Eldoret town, disrupting traffic for three hours.Police blocked the highway from Eldoret International Airport to the town from 11am to 2pm with crowds turning up to welcome Mandago.He returned to the county after being grilled by the DCI in Nairobi over his comments challenging the appointment of Moi University acting vice chancellor Laban Ayiro.The acting VC was appointed by Education CS Fred Matiang i to take over from retired Prof Richard Mibey. But Mandago and some North Rift leaders wanted Prof Isaac Kosgey to take over.The governor took advantage of his summons to get political mileage as he campaigned for his reelection. I will not be shaken and my position will remain the same that appointments for CEOs at the universities must be based on merit, he told residents when he made a stop on his way to the town.He urged President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto to complete infrastructure projects in the county that they had promised.Mandago asked the media to stop misreporting. Journalists should report the truth. At no time did we say we don t want other people at Moi University. We are not tribalists, he said.He accused Matiang i of messing up the education sector and asked Uhuru to appoint politicians to the Cabinet because they understand the public and management better. He should not appoint people from the bushes like Matiang i. They are the ones undermining the Jubilee government, Mandago said.The governor said since Matiang i took over the ministry, the sector has faced problems including school arsons and frequent strikes in colleges.Mandago assured Eldoret residents that the next election will be peaceful and business in the town will not be interrupted. He accused some individuals of seeking donor funding with false reports predicting chaos in the region ahead of next year s polls. If they want free money from the foreigners let then go out there and nurse old women so that they are paid, Mandago said. He also asked his rivals to stop hosting secret tribal meetings aimed at inciting residents.He did not talk about his grilling at the DCI, only saying he was treated humanely along with Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos, MPs Oscar Sudi (Kapseret) and Sila Tiren of Moiben. In fact things have changed there and we were served tea. We are telling CID boss Ndegwa Muhoro that if that is the way you operate these days then you are doing a good job, he said.