Women MPs are demanding gender equality in the nomination of new commissioners to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission.Taveta MP Naomi Shaban (Taveta) and the National Assembly Deputy Speaker Joyce Laboso (Sotik) said this will give the IEBC credibility.They spoke during the unveiling of Kajiado East CDF projects in Kitengela on Thursday. We are all in Jubilee, and President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto know we are in Kajiado today [Thursday]. When we are making this statement, the two able leaders are aware of what we mean, Shaban said.The Taveta MP said President Kenyatta sent her with a message to the people of the county that the government is ready to start work on the Kajiado/Mashuuru/Isara road that will connect with Loitokitok in the south.The leaders who converged in Kitengela included MPs; Cecily Mbarire (Runyenjes), Mary Wamboi (Othaya), Alice Wahome (Kandara), Esther Gathogo (Ruiru), Alice Ng ang a (Thika) Maison Leshomo (Samburu), Rachel Shebesh (Nairobi Women Rep) Janet Teyiaa (nominated) and Senator Beatrice Elachi (nominated).Former devolution and planning CS, Anne Waiguru, who also accompanied the women leaders, stole the show when she was invited to address the residents of Kajiado East when the crowd went wild in celebrating her.When Waiguru took up the microphone to speak, the crowd surged in front blocking the high table as members of the public wanted to have a close look at the woman who made history early in the year when she featured in alleged financial scams within NYS.After introducing herself to the crowd Waiguru went back to sit but the crowd demanded that she tells them what position she is going to vie for in 2017.She went back and took over the microphone again, and the crowd went wild again in chanting her name. Because you really want to know, I am not afraid of sharing my vision. I want to serve my people in Kirinyaga County. There is an old man there who is governor and I want to send him home, God-willing. I want his seat because I fit there, said Waiguru before she went to sit.The leaders were hosted by Kajiado East MP Peris Tobiko in Kitengela town after they toured a number of completed CDF projects.Leshomo and Wambui called on Kajiado County Women Representative, Mary Seneta, to back down from contesting Kajiado East parliamentary seat and instead defend her position in parliament.Seneta, who was not part of the women leaders initiative, has vowed to unseat Tobiko and become MP. We are urging Seneta to rescind her stand and go back to seat inb parliament. If she does that, it is not going to be good for the women in Maasailand. Why all these competition. I will initiate the talks to convince her go back to her seat.