George Morara Monyoncho nearly gave up on his chosen career. That was back in his university days; the days when Kanu s grip on the state was very tight.As a student leader, it meant that those like him were oftentimes on the wrong side of the state.They survived on hope and at times on good Samaritans to coordinate their work, especially when they attempted to bring together all university students under the aegis of Kenya University Students Organisation, (Kuso). Hope kept us going. We had no resources and we had to contribute from among ourselves or depend on well wishers, the vice chairperson of the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights (KNCHR) remembers nostalgically.The mysterious killing of three of his colleagues in student leadership, almost demolished his commitment to the human rights movement. The killings left a sheer sense of terror in me, he says of the killing of Solomon Muruli, Kenneth Makokha Mutabi and Eric Kamundi and Festa Etaba Okongo .But Morara did not give up. He says he was motivated to fight on because of his strong desire for social justice and for a better Kenya. I will do everything and anything to ensure this is realised he says. Human rights defenders are great men and women who have done a lot for this country. They are like those gallant Kenyans who were in the liberation struggle. But they are like the proverbial prophets, who though doing much good are dishonoured in their own home. Before he joined KNCHR, Morara worked at the Kenya Human Rights Commission, (KHRC). This is a premier human rights NGO that has nurtured who s is who in the movement.Is there a fundamental difference in working for the other side of the divide? Flexibility in decision making, he says of his poacher to game warden shift. In the NGO decision making was easier and rapid. At KNCHR such leeway is limited. There is too much control on how we should do our work, especially from the Treasury. But he quickly adds that this challenge is not exclusive to KNCHR. It is a problem that all Chapter 15 commissions have complained about. While not ruling himself out of politics, Morara regrets the ethnicised nature of national politics, arguing that it makes it hard for him to contemplate a career in elective politics.1996: Morara graduated from Egerton University with a degree in Political Science and Linguists. He then worked for various NGOs dealing with human rights.1997: He was a founder member of National Convention Executive Council (NCEC) alongside Kivutha Kibwana, Duncan Okello and Davider Lamba. He served on the board of Release Political Prisoners lobby and as a programme officer at the Kenya Human Rights Commission all these between 1997 and 1998.2008: He played an instrumental role in securing a historic victory in the Mau Mau case against the British Government for torture committed against the Mau Mau Freedom Fighters during the Emergency Period ( 1952-1960 ).2002: University of Toronto, Bachelor of Arts, Honors.2005: University of Windsor, Canada, Master of Political Science.*****2015: We might do things better if we viewed Kenya as belonging to our mothers2016: There are times in the course of political discourse and interaction when great men are called upon to offer leadership. During the Cold War it was President Ronald Reagan who came forth and asked President Gorbachev to tear down the Berlin Wall. For Kenya, time is now, President Uhuru Kenyatta must rise to the occasion and tear down the walls of extra-judicial killings. 2016: The general sense is that people largely want peace, but there could be those ones who are still driven by the elements of old cultural practices that encourage cattle rustling but largely the number of people we have spoken to really want to move away from those old practices. Cattle rustling is no longer a traditional thing. Initially, people used to carry clubs, arrows and spears but guns are not a traditional thing really. They have been imported to this region and other parts of the country and they are wreaking a lot of havoc on the livelihoods of the people. 