The much-awaited supply of laptops to public primary schools countrywide begins today. President Uhuru Kenyatta promised to deliver the laptops in 100 days after taking office in April 2013. ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru said yesterday the project aims to deliver 1.2 million devices by the end of the year for Sh28 billion. The Digital Literacy Programme will employ a multi-sectoral approach that involves several ministries.The Education ministry is providing leadership in content development, Energy ministry power connectivity, while the Industrialisation ministry handlles assembly of the devices.The Devolution ministry will oversee the rollout at the county and subcounty level, while the ICT ministry will coordinate the entire programme. For the next 30 days, Cabinet Secretaries and Principal Secretaries will head out to 60 public primary schools across the counties to oversee the inspection and installation of the digital devices, Mucheru said during a press conference at the ministry offices.At least 400 quality inspectors have been trained in ICT and deployed to counties and subcounties to oversee the installation of devices. They will offer quality technical support for the programme, Mucheru said.Other agencies involved include the Treasury, the Attorney General s office, Teachers Service Commission, Kenya Institute of Special Education, Kenya National Uninon of Teachers and the Kenya Primary Schools Heads Association. The devices include laptops for teachers, tablets for pupils, Braille embossers for special learners, projectors, digital content servers and wireless routers.Mucheru said the devices are fitted with approved content by the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development with content for standard one, two and three already available through the Kenya Education online cloud platform. Content for standard five through standard eight can also be accessed and downloaded for free through the cloud solution, he said.Mucheru said more than 70,000 primary school teachers have been trained on incorporating ICT in the classroom learning process, adding that 1,000 teachers will be trained every week in counties, subcounties and zonal levels. At least two teachers from each school will be trained on ICT integration.The CS said to date, 160,000 devices have arrived from China, with more expected weekly. Mucheru said local assembly facilities at the Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology and at the Rivatex plant in Eldoret will start next month.