As we progress towards the next general election, many aspirants who will be seeking the seats that will be up for grabs are going to apply a myriad of tactics so as to rope in supporters or even get publicity. With the advent of the social media, many are going to use this resource to their advantage as they engage with their supporters or even attempt to articulate their vision, mission and ideologies. For certain , the social media has been extremely effective when it comes to galvanizing support , for instance in the 2008 US general election where the then Illinois Senator Barrack Obama s team effectively and efficiently exploited the social media by running the most sophisticated and impressive presidential campaign ever in American history. This was evident as Obama got majority of the support from the young voters who are majorly on social media and are a burgeoning group. In Kenya, those aspiring to run for certain political seats, for instance the presidency, governors, senators and county MP (Women s Rep) are definitely going to use social media. Especially in counties that are cosmopolitan for example Nairobi, Nakuru and Mombasa. Though it will be appropriate to note that the effective and efficient exploitation of social media does not necessarily mean it will convert to votes to your campaign. Case in point, in 2013, the Kenya National Congress Presidential aspirant and then Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth had the most impressive social media campaign amongst the presidential aspirants. He led in Twitter followers, Facebook likes and also social media polls as the likeliest to win the presidency with an overwhelming majority of around 54% but come the D-day he only managed to garner a meager 72,786 or 0.59% of the vote.Another presidential candidate also had an impressive social media presence, Narc Kenya chairwoman and then Gichugu MP Martha Karua who only amassed 43,881 votes or 0.36% despite being the first presidential aspirant to declare her intention to run and also coming from a pool where she was, at the nascent years of her campaign, regarded as a leading candidate.The number of followers on Twitter or likes on Facebook is definitely going to excite a few candidates subconsciously deceiving them that they are popular or likely to win. Popularity should only be measured by the clout you have on the ground, for instance, the CORD leader has fewer Twitter followers than Peter Kenneth but the former can call a rally in the middle of the week at Uhuru Park and Nairobi traffic will have a snarl up whilst leading broadcasting stations will air his rallies live disrupting normal viewing. In business, the likes on Facebook don t count as profit unless they translate to monetary profit. The same principle should be applied to politics. Martha Karua has more likes on Facebook than the Governor of Kirinyaga , Joseph Ndathi but for certain the latter has more clout in her home turf than the political novice that is Governor Ndathi.Kenya is a third world country, a majority of our citizens live below a dollar a day, and actually it is 63% of our citizens who are dirt poor. For sure, these are people whose priority is not to follow their favourite political leader on social media or even look out for what is trending but rather their next meal or even where to sleep. Social media campaigns should be specific to a small caliber of people of citizens who have that luxury of exposure and time, and those are few. Reportedly the number of people on social media in Kenya is between 600,000 and 650,000; way below a million. To conclude, social media campaigns are good for publicity and clarity in cases of possible defamatory statements attributed to the candidate or to engage informally with supporters, who are few compared to the ones who aren t on social media. Any conclusion that a candidate is popular and hence likely to win because of their internet clout is what I have dubbed the Peter Kenneth Effect. It is a Red Herring to reality. James Kabugi is an independent political analyst and strategist.