NOW that the big party JP has been launched and ODM has had its 10th birthday bash, what s next?For the ruling Jubilee Party there was no announcement of office holders and managers, despite Aden Duale s confident assertion on the eve of the launch, Friday September 9, that a full line-up would be unveiled at the Kasarani Stadium.President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto will not allow JP to get off to a fractious start. As Ruto told initially restive delegates on the day 11 political parties dissolved themselves into the JP behemoth, the new organization is more than a party it constitutes the government of the day. The disarray that overtook former long-ruling party Kanu when it merged with Raila Odinga s National Development party in its 39th and final year in power was a lesson UhuRuto learned and internalized for the long haul.The Kanu-NDP merger saw Raila depose Kanu super-loyalist Joseph Kamotho as secretary-general and then lead an exodus of other longtime faithful retainers of the Independence party out of it in protest at President Daniel arap Moi s preference for Uhuru Kenyatta as his successor.UhuRuto are not giving anyone the excuse to bolt out of JP. They are totally focused on the 2017 race, which they are confidently declaring they are strategizing to win by as much as 70 per cent. As they head for their fifth year in office and make their second bid, the two top occupants of the Presidency have become supremely confident.SWALLOWING THE SALIVA OF OPPOSITION, EATING THE MEAT OF INCUMBENCYThe incident at former Cabinet minister William Ntimama s funeral at midweek in which President Kenyatta gave former Prime Minister Raila Odinga a tongue-lashing to the effect that kumeza mate sio kula nyama (swallowing saliva is not the same as eating meat) revealed a new Uhuru, confident to the point of giving the former Prime Minister a public dressing down. Twisting the knife, the President told the ODM leader to leave JP alone and concentrate on his State House campaign and urged him to continue salivating copiously as JP and its leaders continued to eat the meat of incumbency.Raila, himself no mean rhetorician, was clearly taken aback by the President s newfound sharp tongue. He retaliated by remaining seated as all other mourners stood up as President Kenyatta returned to his seat the throne of incumbency.UhuRuto have put to rest a number of myths in recent years, not least the one most beloved of the Coalition for Reforms and Democracy, the massed but now divided Opposition, which Raila leads that their union would not last throughout the first term.The formation of a big party was something that not even Cord had foreseen until it was too late. Cord s old bromide about the Jubilee regime being a government of two tribes has been well and truly shredded. The defections from the Opposition to JP on the day of the latter s launch rattled Cord so much that it showed. Governor Hassan Joho s idle boast about JP defectors streaming to ODM-Cord was the measure of the body blow. THE ANC AND CCM OF KENYA To President Kenyatta s credit, nearly 40 Opposition leaders, all of them elected and some nominated MPs, streamed into JP in an unprecedented defection. Jubilee insiders were elated. There is now talk inside JP to the effect that the new party will evolve rapidly into the ANC and CCM of Kenya , the South African and Tanzanian powerful ruling parties. This is no idle boast. Given the disarray in the Opposition and the fallout that will almost certainly follow Cord s presidential nominations, to say nothing of ODM s own nominations, for instance, JP could one day achieve the ANC/CCM s ability to take a complete outsider and elevate him to the Presidency in the fashion of John Pombe Magafuli s rise to power.It is being said inside JP that UhuRuto s legacy will be to ensure that even a Giriama or a Njemp can ascend to State House via the giant party. Cord s occasional pitch for a rotational Presidency the next time the constitution is reviewed could well be overtaken by JP s transfiguration into an ANC and CCM-like entity.In the ANC and the CCM, party functionaries never take up the presidency, the party exists to manage and administer the process. UhuRuto are not out to begin to build other people s careers through JP. Their long-time aim is making JP a phenomenal political entity capable of far outlasting them.CORD S DIVIDED HOUSEInside Cord after the 10th anniversary bash in Mombasa held on the same day and at the same time as the JP launch in Nairobi, the last two forays into Western and Coast have been strictly ODM-branded, Raila s brigade is clearly out to make the point that ODM is Cord s bedrock. But there seems to be no sign of a unified movement. Ford Kenya leaders Moses Wetang ula and Bonny Khalwale have even taken to telling Raila to keep off Western and complaining that he disrespects them when he visits their backyards without consulting them.But Raila is expending much of his prodigious political energies on sending the signal that he is the Opposition kingpin and the highest-value flagbearer against Kenyatta on Election Day, August 8, 2017. To all doubters and diehard supporters Raila is saying, I am here to stay and to lead the Opposition and will be on the Presidential ballot .Anything else a negotiated settlement, endorsing another candidate the way he did Mwai Kibaki in 2002, the quiet intervention of key Western diplomats would point in the direction of a Raila exit from the race. But Raila is not having any of that. Occasionally he will speak of backing the candidate most likely to unseat UhuRuto but the rumblings from his fanatical base soon have him saying he will be on the ballot.It is intriguing that JP should be the political machine that is working overtime to achieve a massive national consensus while Cord is caught like a confused antelope in the headlights of its own nominations fears and internal contradictions. Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero s embittered letter of September 7 to ODM secretary general Agnes Zani on the subject of these fears exposed the deep rifts and fears inside the biggest party in the Opposition.This is happening at a time that JP has attracted defectors from far outside its two tribe predominance, including from Luoland, the Coast and Ukambani. People like Rachel Nyamai and James Rege were well aware they would not get their party leaders nod for 2017 and so they bolted into JP at its inception. That they did so instead of pursuing the independent candidate route points to something being different about defections to JP.Jumping into JP is a huge gamble, but the defectors appear to perceive that the new big party will create a wave far beyond Mt Kenya and the Rift Valley. All that talk of a 70 per cent win is not impossible, particularly if Cord is fatally riven by its internal fear and loathing and its leaders end up all pursuing the Presidency. If JP can create a wave in 2017 it will be irresistible where it mattersDeep inside Cord there are those who dread another electoral encounter with Jubilee and who would rather seek a government of national unity such as the Grand Coalition of President Mwai Kibaki and Prime Minister Raila Odinga of 2008-2013. At another level, a group of key Western diplomats is pushing for Raila not to run and instead endorse a big vote bloc candidate. The JP launch bash is over and ODM has embarked on its 11th year. The big question is how Kenyans will vote next year (have the defectors, for instance, taken appreciable numbers of voters with them?)One thing is for sure: It is no longer business as usual inside the Opposition.