Kenya is experiencing rapid growth in the energy sector with production of 5,000 MW of the 15,000 MW projected in the Vision 2030 set to be realised by next year. This growth in electricity-generation capacity is coupled with rapid increase in connectivity, with more than five million new connections expected over the next three years. The oil and gas sector is equally vibrant with viability estimated to be in excess of one billion barrels, even as new discoveries are being made. This presents immense opportunity in the energy sector, and in the whole region, with export of oil expected to start in the next few months. According to the World Bank, women in developing countries spend between two and nine hours a day collecting fuel and fodder, and other household chores. Gathering biomass to produce energy is therefore left to women. Firewood, charcoal and animal dung unfortunately release noxious fumes. Although women are mostly hurt by these harmful sources of energy, they are underrepresented in policy-making. They have little or no voice in that would help solve energy problems. Many energy projects introduced in rural areas focus mainly on the technical aspects and ignore issues gender issues, and this affecs women participation in the adoption of new technologies. Women possess knowledge and skills that are critical in finding local solutions, however, they are ignored, and men take up the biggest stake in the business of supplying new technologies. Women are the key users of energy, and if they would have access to labour-saving solutions, it would improve their income and ultimately boost their family s livelihoods. Women should be involved in drafting and implementing policies that will enable them meet energy needs. Overall, access to cleaner and affordable energy solutions will play an important role in empowering women. But for this to happen they should be given a greater stake in the business. In Kenya, less than one per cent of board members are women in the energy sector, with less than two per cent being in top and middle-level management. At the corporate level, few women apply for top positions, which should worry policy-makers. The Ministry of Energy, Strathmore University and the Kenya Private Sector Alliance have partnered to host Women in Energy Conference on October 18 and 19. The objective is to inspire women to join the sector by rewarding and recognising those who have excelled. The meeting will also showcase opportunities available.James Ngomeli is a marketer and a consultant in energy matters