Towards the end of each year, jubilation is often palpable among maize farmers in the North Rift, as they prepare for bumper harvests. But this year, the prospects are not looking good. A strange disease outbreak, coupled with doubtful seeds and fertilisers, have hit maize farming in the region hard. As the African Green Revolution (Agra) Forum begins in Nairobi today, many maize farmers are staring at hunger and poverty as a low harvest looms.The North Rift is known as the grain basket of Kenya due to its high production of maize and wheat, with 291,440 hectares under maize production. But this year, crops in four counties Elgeyo Marakwet, Nandi, Trans Nzoia and Uasin Gishu have been hit by a fungal disease identified as maize head smut disease. This is barely two years after another strange disease, maize lethal necrosis, struck the region, putting the country s food security on the line.Mindililwo and Kamoi in Elgeyo Marakwet, Ol Leassos (Nandi), Endebes (Trans Nzoia) and Moiben (Uasin Gishu) are the worst-hit areas, according to a report released by Agriculture PS Richard Lesiyampe.In Elgeyo Marakwet, farmers are crying foul over what they believe is a disease caused by sub-standard fertiliser and seeds. Emmanuel Kirui, a farmer from Mindililwo, Keiyo North subcounty, says the disease has affected his entire three-acre maize farm.Kirui says trouble started earlier this year when, weeks after planting, the crops yellowed and stagnated. He says the crop improved when he used a top dressing fertiliser at the end of May. It seems the fertiliser we got from the National Cereals and Produce Board had a problem. We are asking the government to analyse it to confirm our doubts. We would also wish to be told if the seeds from Kenya Seed Company were the right seeds for this area, Kirui told the Star at his farm.He says there are more questions than answers on the subsidised seeds and fertiliser. I have been told by government officials that the disease is caused by low-nutrient soils, but I am not yet convinced, he said.For Kirui and four other affected farmers in his neighbourhood, cutting down the ravaged maize crop in the entire farms, and watching them drying up as they bear the pain of losing an investment, is the only option. Chances of receiving any compensation to enable his family grow a short-season crop and prepare to farm again next year are remote. Agriculture CS Willy Bett announced in a recent visit to the area that the disease was a natural disaster that could not be compensated for by the state. While he sympathised with the farmers, the CS argued that if the government were to compensate the farmers, then farmers countrywide would seek compensation for all natural-calamity losses. The only remedy to these increasing incidents of crop diseases is for farmers to have an insurance cover for their crops, Bett said during the visit.Elgeyo Marakwet Agriculture chief officer Pius Cheserek rules out KSC seeds and NCPB fertiliser as the causes of the disease, attributing it to poor farming methods instead.Cheserek says the disease, which causes black spores on crop s tassels and ears (the part that produces grain) and causes malformation, is caused by climate change and bad soils. It is rampant in areas that are warm and have water-logged soils, Cheserek says.Water logging, Cheserek says, increases soil acidity, which provides a favourable condition for the fungi that cause head smut. He says continuous use of DAP fertiliser is a possible cause of increasing soil acidity that has led to declining soil fertility in most areas of the North Rift.Cheserek says Mindililwo and Kapcherop have been hit severely. He says farmers have lost six to eight acres of maize due to the disease.The chief officer says head smut has not affected as many farmers as MLN, which affected 1,450 farmers in Elgeyo Marakwet in 2013 and 2014, significantly reducing maize production. Head smut will have a significant impact on yields this year, but the losses may not be as high as those caused by MLN, he says.At the neighbouring Uasin Gishu county, farmers in Moiben are bearing the brunt of the disease. Farmer Vincent Kigen says the rapaciously destructive maize disease is new in the area. The losses are unimaginable. We have been asked by agricultural experts to cut and burn down the maize crop in the entire farm to reduce spreading to other farms. We can t even feed our cows on the affected maize. We have no choice but to comply with what the experts are suggesting, Kigen said.He says his family of six will have no food, and he will have no money to pay school fees for his three children in secondary schools and college.Farmer Jeremiah Yego, who manages a family farm at Kabenes in Uasin Gishu, dismisses expert reports that the disease is caused by exhausted soils. He questions why the impact of diminishing nutrients in the soil became so sudden. If the soils were losing minerals over the years, why wasn t the effect gradual? We could have witnessed gradual reduction of yields, Yego said.Data at the Agriculture ministry indicates that until 2011, farmers in the North Rift have been producing an average of 10.3 million bags of maize annually, making it the highest maize producer in the country after Western and the South Rift.However, yields have been declining as farmers face emerging crop diseases, high costs of farming and low prices for grains. Failure by the national government and county governments to invest in preventive measures against crop diseases has been a matter of great concern.William Kimosong, Trans Nzoia chairman of the Kenya National Federation of Agricultural Producers, says the two levels of government are lagging behind in issuing early warnings. He says there are no elaborate strategies to combat crop diseases. We have not seen efforts by the government to educate farmers on dangerous crop diseases and how they can be prevented. Maize lethal necrosis and now head smut diseases have caught many farmers unawares, Kimosong said.He warns that failure to stem emerging maize diseases is a recipe for poor food production, as maize is a staple food for many households across the country. Many farmers may fear venturing into maize production because of the strange diseases, the chairman adds. We are likely to witness a significant shortage of maize in the country in the coming years if we cannot put in place preventive measures, Kimosong said.Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos denies county governments are not doing enough to prevent crop diseases. He says the Agriculture ministry has not supported counties to carry out soil research and to provide technical solutions to crop diseases.The governor says the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute should help counties carry out frequent soil testing and research, and offer advice to county governments. I appeal to the national government to help in research. We need to detect early signs of crop diseases to save farmers from massive losses, Tolgos said.He says the crop diseases are a threat to the investments the county has made in introducing new cash crops, including tea, pyrethrum and coffee. Counties are trying are their best. The national government should offer support through special agencies tasked with dealing with specific agricultural issues, Tolgos said.He says the crop diseases have acted as lessons for Elgeyo Marakwet, which is now educating farmers on the need to diversify crop production. He says the campaign seeks to persuade farmers to grow traditional food crops, including millet, sorghum, cassava, sweet potatoes and bananas, to mitigate the effects of emerging maize diseases.Tolgos says the traditional food crops and vegetables have proven to be drought and disease resistant, making them the suitable alternative food crops, as maize production diminishes.