Meru county Senator Kiraitu Murungi and Governor Peter Munya were bosom buddies and only until the juicy gubernatorial perks did they part. The Meru clash represents a wider conflict running through some of the 47 counties. In Meru county s neighbour, Runyenjes MP Cecily Mbaririe is rallying forces against Embu Governor Martin Wambora. She accuses the governor of corruption. Wambora and his allies have asked Mbarire to try her luck in Busia county, her marital home.Mombasa county Senator Hassan Omar is challenging Governor Hassan Joho. The two allies-turned-foes from ODM and the Wiper Democratic Party are in the Coalition for Reforms and Democracy.Governor William Kabogo and Kabete MP Ferdinand Waititu, a carpetbagger from Embakasi, are dueling for the gubernatorial perch. Baba Yao was sent out of Nairobi, to spare the city county the swinging moods of the roughrider of stone-throwing infamy. Baba Yao - the father of the city s political ruffians ran for, and lost, the same position in the 2013 general election to Governor Evans Kidero.Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko s attention has been diverted from Governor Kidero after Waititu s exit. Sonko Rescue Services, which included ambulances, have been rested. The maverick has since understood he has politically-correct and virulent critics in the Jubilee Alliance. Starehe MP Maina Kamanda leads the clique that do not want Sonko near the pot of honey.Gubernatorial clashes are getting nasty. The steak on the tables of the counties is attracting more vultures of opportunity. Politicians are salivating for control of the billions of shillings in devolved funds.In Meru, the two senior-most politicians are eyeing the devolved steak. Munya wants a second helping. Murungi has since realised the senatorial position is not as meaty as Munya s dish.Although Murungi views the proposed mega-party, the Jubilee Alliance, as holding high stakes for President Uhuru s re-election, there is something else fueling the acrimony: Control of devolved funds. Murungi is marketing his ambition for Munya s position as a public cause - to protect the billions of shillings the county receives annually.Murungi has enlisted some members of the Meru county assembly to push an anti-corruption crusade against Munya. He has also fingered a running mate from Governor Munya s home turf, Tigania East. The choice takes the battle to the incumbent s door.The rivalries go beyond ambition for county leadership. Greed for power and money are destroying pre-2013 general election alliances. As Imenti South MP, Murungi teamed up with Munya, then Tigania East MP, to win top Meru county seats on an Alliance Party of Kenya ticket. The future of this party is uncertain.Murungi wants APK to dissolve and join the proposed Jubilee Alliance Party. JAP will merge President Uhuru s TNA, Deputy President William Ruto s URP, and other political formations in the ruling coalition. But it is not for the life of the APK that Munya and Murungi are clashing.There is much more brewing in miraaland. Munya has declared he will run for president in 2022, to raise his stock among the Ameru. The Ameru, Munya says, would waste an opportunity by handing over the governor s mansion to Murungi. .Gubernatorial clashes are getting nasty. The steak on the tables of the counties is attracting more vultures