Murang a county has received its third county commissioner in four months after a series of transfers that have shocked residents.Former Kisumu county commissioner John Elungata has been transferred to the area after commissioner Evans Achoki was moved to Mombasa county. Elungata reported last week, while Achoki left late last month. Achoki had only served for two months, before he was transferred.He had previously served in Kwale county in the same capacity. Achoki took over from Maalim Mohammed, who was transferred to Kisumu.In May, then Murang a county commissioner Kula Hache was transferred to Kisii county.She was replaced by Mohammed Birik from Samburu county. Hache had served in the county for four years. During her tenure, she helped fight illicit brew in the area. Before she left, Hache had given a directive that no one was allowed to sell unsalted molasses in the county. This was to ensure no one used molasses to brew liquor. Two years ago, there were many cases of kidnapping in the county and Hache cracked down on the cartel involved.Birik, however, stayed in Murang a county for only one week, before he was transferred back to Samburu county. Sources, who sought anonymity, claimed that Birik s transfer to Murang a county was revoked after Samburu leaders raised concerns that his transfer from the area would hurt peace programmes he had initiated together with Isiolo county commissioner George Natembeya.The sources said the leaders feared that collapse of the peace programmes would reignite clashes.These frequent transfers of county commissioners in Murang a have left residents wondering if they have been politically instigated by local leaders.After receiving his transfer letter to Mombasa, Achoki said it was a normal government routine to provide efficient services to the public. He said a civil servant is expected to work in any part of the country.Elungata had previously served as the Mathioya DO before being promoted to the rank of DC.The new county commissioner is expected to control rising political temperatures in the county, especially with frequent clashes between Governor Mwangi Wairia and Kigumo MP Jamleck Kamau. Kamau wants to unseat Wairia.Elungata will also face the challenge of wiping out illicit brew that has become a problem in some parts of the county.