Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho will lead an eight-member team to manage ODM leader Raila Odinga's fourth presidential campaign.Although several other teams will be created, Joho's squad will be the main group as the opposition leader prepares for what is likely to be his final bid for the presidency.The Star has established that ODM has identified a youthful team, most of them close confidants of the former Prime Minister.Joho's team is meant to appeal to young people, but will also be in charge of resource mobilisation, recruitment and strategy.Expert comment: Joho s meteoric rise could be his downfallThe Mombasa kingpin and deputy party leader told the Star the team has asked Raila "to step aside and allow us the opportunity to make him Kenya's fifth President."Joho himself, considered by many to be the Coast supremo, wants to be Kenya's sixth President in 2022.ODM analysts say the new tack could lighten the burden on Raila, 72, who has been scouring every village for votes as he seeks to repulse Jubilee from his traditional bases.The decision on the Joho team was reached at Mombasa last weekend after the governor threw a party to mark ODM's 10th anniversary. He almost single-handedly arranged the celebration, while Jubilee Party was launched in Nairobi.Yesterday Joho confirmed he had been handed the responsibility of helping Raila win. He immediately warned the Jubilee Party to expect a run for its money."Things will not be the same. We have been tried and tested in Malindi and other areas where we have handed Jubilee huge loses in by-elections. Now we have matured. We know what to do and we will match them in every area."He emphasised the team would ensure the party's election board holds free and fair nominations. "Poor nominations cost us votes in the last election. We will not repeat that," Joho said.Working with Joho will be Suna East MP Junet Mohamed, Turkana Governor Josephat Nanok, woman MPs Aisha Jumwa (Kilifi) and Mishi Mboko (Mombasa).Others are ODM chairman John Mbadi, Kajiado Central MP Elijah Memusi Kanchori and Mbita MP Millie Odhiambo.It is believed Nanok can sway votes of the marginalised Turkana community toward the opposition, while Junet is key to delivering the Muslim vote.The youthful Memusi is expected to influence the Maasai vote, at a time when the region and community have become a Cord-Jubilee battleground. This was witnessed at Wednesday's burial of William ole Ntimama when President Uhuru Kenyatta delivered a tongue-lashing to Raila who said Ntimama was staunchly ODM.Jumwa and Mboko are both fiery and influential Coast politicians.It is said another team, comprised mainly of ODM governors, will be led by Kakamega boss and ODM deputy party leader Wycliffe Oparanya.ODM anniversary celebrations are set to continue in ODM-controlled counties.Joho's team is meant to appeal to young people, but will also be in charge of resource mobilisation, recruitment and strategy.ODM think tank analysts say the new tack could lighten the burden on Raila, 72, who has been scouring every village for votes as he seeks to repulse Jubilee from his traditional bases.Raila is determined to lock out Jubilee from Nyanza, Western and Coast, as the party battles for swing votes, especially in Northeastern and among pastoralist communities. The mistakes that ODM has made before will not be repeated. We have a strong national party with very loyal members and a popular party leader. It is time those numbers are translated into votes, Joho told the Star.Thanks to Joho, ODM stormed Mombasa in style last weekend with a series of roadshows as thousands of delegates from across the country welcome the opposition supremo.Joho hosted a reception in honour of Raila and his wife Ida, which was attended by hundreds of elected leaders.The Mombasa fanfare with international artists including Alikiba and Diamond diverted some attention from the Jubilee jamboree.Joho says he will vigorously campaign against Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya who decamped to Jubilee. They say I should not get involved in Kwale issues. I tell them the issues affecting the people of Kwale are same ones affecting me in Mombasa. I will visit Kwale in the morning, midday and evening. It is not clear, however, at what stage the entire opposition coalition would be involved in the planning, but Raila has made clear ODM will not go it alone in 2017. Unlike Jubilee, which is killing parties, we are broadening our coalition to bring in as many people as we can. We will then negotiate among ourselves who is the best candidate to defeat Jubilee, Raila told the Star on Sunday. He referred to what appears to be the uneasy amalgamation of about 12 into Jubilee.Raila's co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka of Wiper and Moses Wetangu'la of Ford Kenya both want to the coalition's presidential ticket.However, the two skipped the ODM gala in Mombasa when the party unanimously endorsed Raila for the top job.Raila is running against a moneyed incumbent and ta op-notch logistical organisation and planning are critical.Jubilee has already acquired a building complex along Thika Superhighway and 47 state-of-the-art red for the campaign.In 2013, ODM had several lobby groups spearheading Raila's campaign, including ODM Reloaded and ODM Sibanduki.However, infighting for resources hobbled Raila's campaign.In May this year, there were indications ODM was also expanding the directorates at Orange House for effectiveness and easy coordination.It is not clear what became of the process.