Raila Odinga s former aide Eliud Owalo has had a taste of his own medicine. After warning Mombasa Governor Ali Hassan Joho (pictured)against endorsing any candidate in his Nairobi tour, ODM bloggers landed on the man with all manner of insults. Some reminded him how he allegedly mismanaged Raila s 2013 presidential campaigns as head of the secretariat and alleged that he was becoming jittery because somebody was out to correct his mistakes. Owalo appeared to use strong language against the governor. He said Joho should desist from overt or covert actions to achieve mundane, petty and parochial hidden or malicious intentions such as marketing certain preferred ODM 2017 parliamentary candidates. Owalo has shown an interest in the Kibra parliamentary seat, but whether his ODM party clears him or not remains a story for another day. **** The individuals who recently defected to join the Jubilee Party, among them governors, might as well kiss their active political life goodbye and drop their aspirations to defend their seats. Corridors has it that the governors who defected from Cord will not be cleared by JP. They are considered to be outsiders and therefore not the first among the equals. The reason for luring them to abandon their parties, according to an insider, was to have them burn their bridges without the thought of going back, to provide safe passage for certain favoured candidates. It is never celebration time until it is. ****A governor from South Nyanza is literally dishing out money as he seeks reelection. During the burial of the father of a well-known trade unionist, the governor went to comfort the family past midnight. After a brief talk with the bereaved family, he started giving out money to all and sundry, including mourners who are not his voters. His Cabinet members are also very liquid. To stop any criticism of the county chief, they always pull out a wad of notes to pacify residents who are shocked by what they see as mega embezzlement. **** The official war on drug trafficking and peddling might just be a farce after all. The drug barons are reported to have recruited and planted a mole in the office of a senior official in the Office of the President, closely monitoring the anti-drugs war. The mole is a secretary in the senior government official s office. Tipsters were shocked when they sought to meet the honcho only for the recruited secretary, the girlfriend of the brother of a major drug dealer, to come and to talk to them. The tipsters left in a hurry, without meeting the man.