John Muhanji from Nyanza Golf Club Njeru beat a strong field of 100 players to claim top honours in the inaugural Betway tournament at the par-73 Kitale Golf Club course over the weekend. The handicap 28 player, who displayed excellent form, fired a total of 5 under par 68 nett to walk away with the overall title. The event drew amateur golfers from Nandi Bears Kitale and Nyanza.In an interview, Muhanji attributed his victory to good luck. Sometimes when you wake up on the good side of the bed, you just find yourself doing well. Today was one of those days. Furthermore, I played with some jolly players and this encouraged me a lot. It is an honour to have won this tournament and I want to thank Betway for supporting this event, Muhanji said.The runners-up honours went to handicap 13 Collins Kebenei of Nandi Bears, who shot 3 under par 70 nett while home player John Thuo came in third with a score of 2 under par 71 nett. Thuo beat club-mate Jacob Tum (handicap 26) on count back. Ruth Kae was the lady winner after collecting 76 points to finish ahead of Zainabbu Rutto. The first nine winner was Patrice Tomno (32points) while Ezekiel Mutai (31 points) claimed second nine honours.Longest Drive men s honours went to F. Barasa with Zainabbu Rutto winning the ladies category while the Nearest to the Pin honours went to Sandhya Shah. Betway Kenya chairman Kiprono Kittony urged for a positive attitude towards betting. There are many positive aspects of betting and as a company we are sponsoring many sporting events in the country to promote talent, Kittony said. Betway Kenya country manager, Wanja Gikonyo, said the company s talent search has started countrywide.At Muthaiga Country Club, Paul Gondi, playing off handicap 20, shot 17 in the front nine and 22 in the back nine for a total of 39 to emerge the winner in the Captain and Vice Captain Golf Day. The men s winner was handicap 7 golfer Francis Ogolla on 38points while the lady winner was Florence Maina (handicap 7) on 39points.