Coke Studio is set to blow your minds. I mean you ain't even ready for what is about to go down. Artists from all over Africa have come together to make some of the most memorable music. If you are from any country in Africa, clap for yourself. Your mates are representing you big time.For the fourth season in a row, the show is gradually growing even incorporating international artistes like Ne-yo who made an appearance on the third episode.With the different artistes working together, many have found themselves doing even after the show. Nigeria's Yemi Alade and boy band Sauti Sol blew our minds on the third season. They later on did a collabo dubbed 'Africa' that is Yemi's album 'Africa'.This year, the studio has a new international artiste, Trey Songz. He's an award winning American artist best known for his jams like Slow Motion, Heart Attack, About you, Na Na among others.Trey Songz landed in the country yesterday (September 20). He took to twitter to announce that he has finally arrived."Good morning from Nairobi! Didn't sleep last night, may take a few days to adjust but I feel amazing. Looking forward to today!"One of Kenya's finest, Nyashinski is pretty excited for the arrival of the superstar as he took to instagram to express his joy.He wrote, "I'm humbled and excited for the opportunity to be working with Trey Songz among other talented African artists at Coke Studio this year! Thank you God &amp; @cocacola_africa and everyone who made this possible. This is only the beginning. I don't take my blessings for granted." As he prepares for what is ahead, Trey is truly enjoying his visit as he had lunch with Yemi Alade. I bet it's his first time to have jollof rice. And ride a matatu.Trey Songz having jolof rice with Yemi AladeTrey Songz riding a matatuTrey Songz with Ghana's Stone Bwoy at the Coke Studio Africa premisesTrey Songz at the Coke Studio Africa premisesTrey Songz at the Coke Studio Africa premisesTrey Songz with Ghana's Stone Bwoy at the Coke Studio Africa premises