 I understand why some people have a problem with a son of a peasant getting this far because it normally does not happen. But they should wake up to a new reality that this is a Kenya in which every child, irrespective of their background or where they come from it does not matter the status of their parents, whether poor or not, we must all have an equal chance. William Samoei Ruto, September 2016Deputy President William Samoei Ruto, his allies, supporters, cohorts and admirers will unblinkingly tell anyone willing to listen that his meteoric rise from pauper to prince in just about a quarter of a century has been due to his superior skills as a hustler : hardworking, strategic, loyal, God-fearing and honest. David Ole Sankok, the Chairman of the National Council for Persons with Disabilitie, reaffirmed and ably captured this romantic narrative of Ruto s rags-to-riches-in-supersonic-time journey in the September 26, 2016 edition of The Star. Those who question and interrogate this narrative are quickly lampooned as being envious or jealous : just ask former Lugari MP, Cyrus Shakhalaga Khwa Jirongo whom Ruto cheekily but emphatically told off this past June: My brother Cyrus Cyrus Jirongo at times gets mad at me because in the past I was his handyman I don t deny that I was your handyman but why are you getting mad? This [rise to the position of Deputy President] is God s workRuto added on that occasion that it was really because he had been patient enough to jipanga (strategize and organize himself) that he had ascended to Kenya s political stratosphere; continuing that he would indeed be loyal to Uhuru Kenyatta before seeking the Kenyan presidency on Uhuru s expected retirement in 2022.Yet, deep questions linger: questions around how he has ethnically mobilized the Kalenjin community, to even levels of alleged crimes against humanity, so as to become its most preeminent and reportedly despotic - leader following the retirement of Kenya s authoritarian second president Daniel Moi; deeply disturbing claims of a very unhygienic relationship with land ownership and especially the primitive accumulation of land; and claims of an ineluctable proclivity for corruption and deception. Let us review them.It is on record that the crimes against humanity charges against Ruto at the International Criminal Court (ICC) were ultimately dismissed after the prosecutor withdrew them following a lack of evidence. In a sense, then, Ruto has no case to answer. However, the fact that the lack of evidence was occasioned by the sudden change of heart of a majority of prosecution witnesses in that case eerily recollects another case in which Ruto was accused of fraud but the prosecution was not able to produce a key witness against him. The witness in that case was Hellen Chege Njue and Nairobi chief magistrate Gibert Mutembei was clear that she was the missing link in the prosecution s case. Ms. Njue had been the finance manager at the Kenya Pipeline Company when Ksh272 million was allegedly fraudulently paid out for plots in Ngong Forest. She would be appointed in July 2009 to the board of trustees of the Coffee Development Fund, a parastatal under Ruto s watch as the Minister for Agriculture. As the Daily Nation report of April 16, 2011 would note: Mr. Ruto s appointment of Ms. Njue to a parastatal under his ministry at a time when he was facing fraud charges will be seen as curious, considering she was one of the witnesses the prosecution would have relied on in its case Ms .Njue could have testified against the minister had the prosecution sought her statement or called her as a witness, an omission which has been pointed out by lawyers. No explanation was given as to why Ms. Njue was not called as a witness.Ruto also took a very interesting view of the incineration of Kiambaa church, one of the most haunting and horrific episodes of the attacks during the 2007 post-election violence (PEV) against the Kikuyu community in the Rift Valley. According to Wikileaks, at a meeting on May 12, 2009 with US Ambassador William Ranneberger, US Assistant Secretary of State for Africa Johnnie Carson and US National Security Council director Michelle Gavin, Ruto had stated that the destruction by fire of the Kiambaa church had been due to an accidental fire. In stark contrast, according to the Report of the Commission of Inquiry into Post Election Violence (CIPEV or more popularly, the Waki Commission), the death toll from the deliberate burning alive of mostly Kikuyu women and children huddled together in a church in Kiambaa on 1 January 2008 was 17 burned alive in the church and 54 others injured: According to reports, including witness testimony, mattresses and blankets were set ablaze with petrol and thrown into the building while mothers and babies who were trying to flee the inferno were pushed back into the church. Kikuyu men attempting to defend their church and loved ones were hacked to death with machetes, shot with arrows, or pursued and killed.Ruto s name was earlier this year adversely mentioned in the attempt by some faceless businessmen to grab the Langata Primary School playground. So notorious was this case that, for instance, cartoonist Gado began to caricature Ruto wearing a turban around his head; as the names of those who had originally been exposed as having a grabbed the land were men professing the Sikh faith. In another case, Ruto was fined Ksh5 million for obtaining the 100-acre land of Adrian Muteshi who had fled from it during the 2007 PEV; in what has been described as a land-grab. In 2009, Ruto, as Minister for Agriculture, survived a parliamentary vote of no confidence following a maize scandal where Kenya s strategic grain reserves were surreptitiously raided. Later, as Deputy President, Ruto faced the Hustler Jet Scandal : he was accused of hiring a private jet for an exorbitant Ksh100 million at tour West Africa when the Kenyan government was clearly struggling to meet its financial obligations. So saint or sinner: will the real William Samoei Ruto please stand up! Ngure wa Gachanja is a human rights and democratic governance practitioner. The views expressed in this column are entirely his own and in no way represent or articulate those of any organizations he may be associated with