Trouble is brewing in Ford Kenya after almost 20 leaders accused chief Moses Wetang ula of running down the outfit and gave him 14 days to call party elections or be removed.County chairmen Ken Wafula (Trans Nzoia), Andrew Aduda (Siaya), Lupesia Komesa (Nairobi) and Mumo Kitheka of Kitui said Wetang ula reduced the party to an ethnic enclave. The party is not in good shape. What should we do to save the party? Wafula and others said in Kisumu on Thursday.He went on, Party leader Wetang ula and the entire leadership have failed the membership terribly. Wafula said the last controversial party polls were held in 2011. We were supposed to hold our elections in 2015 but up to now, there is no timetable for elections, he said.This development could derail Wetang ula s bid to have ODM leader Raila Odinga and Cord co-principal Kalonzo Musyoka of Wiper support him as the presidential candidate against President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2017.Ford Kenya secretary general Eseli Simiyu dismissed the claims, saying Wafula is not a member of the party and does not speak for the party. He s been masquerading as the party chairman in Trans Nzoia. We are trying to find out who is behind activities meant to undermine the party leadership, Simiyu said.The accusing leaders were drawn from at least 18 counties. They spoke during celebrations to mark the party s 24th anniversary. During the event, Wetang ula s PA Mandu Mandu was thrown out. Former Ford Kenya leaders Oginga Odinga, Masinde Muliro, Kijana Wamalwa, Achieng Oneko, George Kapten and Kibor Tala were awarded certificates posthumously for their service to the party.Leaders warned Wetang ula, the Bungoma senator, against imposing himself on the party as the 2017 presidential candidate because he had not been validly nominated. According to our party constitution, the NDC is the only organ that can nominate a presidential candidate but it has never met since 2011, Wafula said. In real sense, Ford Kenya does not have a presidential candidate yet. Wetang ula has expressed his interest but he has not been nominated by the relevant body of the party. The leaders say Wetang ula s leadership engages in brown envelope business during party nominations to award the highest bidders, as opposed to those who win in nominations.Such behaviour, they claimed, has led to the departure of many senior party members. Those who have left over bad leadership include Turkana Senator John Munyes, the long-serving secretary general who later served as chairman, MPs Khatib Mwashetani (Lunga Lunga), who was Wetang ula s deputy, Nicholas Ngikor (Turkana East), Olago Aluoch (Kisumu West) and Jared Opiyo (Awendo).Aduda said the party constitution stipulates that the party shall hold its elections both grassroots and national every four years. The party s National Delegates Congress is supposed to meet after every two years. The last time it met, according to the leaders, was in 2011. The party s general council must meet annually but it has not met for more than three years now, he said.Although the National Executive Council is mandated to meet quarterly, the last time it held a meeting was in August 2015 at Buntana Hotel in Nakuru.