I m still angry at Arsene Wenger even though the league title isn t completely gone yet. If Arsenal beat Leicester this weekend; and Spurs and City draw and Arsenal beat Spurs in March and Spurs beat Leicester when they meet it still would have been more difficult to get the title than it should have been. If you look back at the games we have lost or drawn this year alone, none of them should have turned out that way. Infact right now Arsenal should have been on top of the league by a distance. But there is still hope and I remain a hopeful Gunner until it is mathematically impossible to win the league.Anyway this week let me come home and firstly congratulate Nick Mwendwa, the new Football Kenya Federation President. He is the only candidate I interviewed on my radio show because others felt too important to make themselves available. Judging by comments on many WhatsApp groups and social media sites, a lot of people have no idea who Mwendwa is. Infact some said he was Sam Nyamweya s project while others said he was just getting ready to eat. The fact is Mwendwa is a self made multimillionaire who in my view isn t interested in anyone else s money. He s made his own so why engage in corruption. He was one of Nyamweya s biggest critics so no project going on there and he really has a passion for football and a hunger to develop young talent. His work with Kariobangi Sharks speaks for itself and he is very intelligent if you take the time to chat with him. But I do acknowledge that he has a huge task and responsibility ahead of him. It won t be easy overturning the mess we are currently in but at least there is hope. Don t expect to see Harambee Stars suddenly winning games and tournaments because football development starts with grooming players from the age of eight. But there are things he can do for Harambee Stars to see them begin to regain some form. I remember he spoke of attracting corporate Kenya and other big sponsors to assist with the cost of running football to ensure that issues like late allowances and poor travel plans are a thing of the past. As a corporate professional himself, I remember he said he intends to hire professionals and not just friends to run the federation and give them serious KPI s (Key Performance Indexes) to ensure accountability. On his twitter handle after his victory Mwendwa wrote: We have an 8-year plan to turn football into a viable industry. As much as history has taught us to be suspicious of football leaders, I urge all of you to be patient and remain positive to see this plan come to fruition. We also need to remember that as Kenyans and lovers of football; we too have a role to play. Fans must show support for football to help attract corporate sponsors. Sponsors must play their social responsibility role and give towards the younger generation and the government oh the government well I gave up on them a long time ago! Let them just watch this space! They can buy Harambee Stars breakfast when we qualify for the next big tournament! But we can do this guys! As Nick said: Thanks for those who believed. To all others, join the ship and believe! #GameNiMimiGameNiWewe Talk to me on @CarolRadull on twitter or www.facebook.com/CarolRadull