Notwithstanding the tremendous public political awakening in 1992 associated with the euphoria and political campaigns that preceded the return to multi-party politics, we had to endure the presidential authoritarian rule of the Moi/KANU regime for ten more years after the December elections of that year. The lesson we painfully learnt was that multi- party politics was not sufficient in changing a political regime from an authoritarian to a democratic one. If the basic rules of the political game remain the same, then, as the French say, "plus ca change plus ca reste le meme."In 2002, however, the game changed. Without a substantive change in the constitution the opposition, by sheer numbers, brought together a broad national democratic front of political parties and civil society organizations called the National Rainbow Coalition (NARC) which defeated KANU at the polls of 2002. NARC's strategy was very simple: beat KANU at its own game by just raising overwhelming numbers at the polls that makes it virtually impossible to falsify the figures. It was fortunate that the IPPG had facilitated the formation of an Electoral Commission, representative of all sides of the political divide, hence it could not be partisan in managing the elections.NARC won the presidential elections and received an overwhelming majority in Parliament, giving it a solid mandate to undertake sweeping constitutional, economic and social reforms that it had promised in its election manifesto entitled "Democracy and Popular Empowerment." The manner in which the Electoral Commission did its job was important; but NARC could not have won without a "smart political move". Likewise, while CORD has rightly pressurized for a reformed IEBC, the success of this initiative will only be beneficial to this opposition coalition if it subsequently makes a smart political move to win the elections.NARC could have succeeded to live its full five year cycle intact as a coalition had the MOU been respected and the "Summit" maintained as a vital organ for the political cohesion of the coalition. Moreover, the sharing of power between the LDP and NAK, with Raila Amolo Odinga becoming the Prime Minister while Kibaki was President, would have avoided the bloodletting that was to follow five years later, only to give Kofi Annan the opportunity to settle the crisis using this same formula. NARC was smart in the way it acquired power. It behaved foolishly once in power and lost its political kingdom. Likewise, Jubilee was quite smart in the way it acquired power, but the "evil genius of foolishness" may easily be its political Waterloo.Two political tendencies contended fiercely to determine state policy in the NARC Government: one was a reformist tendency led by Raila Amolo Odinga and closely allied to civil society organisations that were associated with the Bomas of Kenya constitutional review process. The second was what came to be known as the "Mount Kenya Mafia" bringing together 3 powerful ministers that were members of Kibaki's DP: Kiraitu Murungi, Chris Murungaru and David Mwiraria. Enough has been written on how determined this trio was to use political power in the NARC regime to clip the wings of the LDP, thereby essentially destroying the coalition and prospects for successful constitutional reforms as early as 2005. Efforts to save the coalition twice failed miserably: first under Vice President Wamalwa and secondly under Vice President Moody Awori. Whichever tendencies are determining the goings on in the Jubilee government could easily midwife a comparative implosion.The Referendum of 2005 would not have been necessary had NARC institutionalized the politics of inclusion. The outcome of the Referendum set the stage for the highly divisive elections of December 2007 that led to the Post Election Violence with profound effects on subsequent political developments. The violence exposed the soft under belly of the authoritarian regime: its reliance on ethnic divisions and tensions for political survival, a rather perverse root to seek legitimacy. The coalition government was not really a coalition properly so called. It was more of an imposed rapprochement between the parties in conflict to restore peace, law and order so as to initiate needed reforms. But the experience nonetheless taught Kenyans a valuable political lesson. Developing societies with cultural diversities like Kenya are more prone to succeed in undertaking socio- economic and democratic reforms through consociational and consensus-based democracy than the Westminster type of democracy we are used to. In discussing WHERE WE GO FROM HERE we must bear in mind two things: one, that the new constitution is an extremely important landmark in Kenya's political development since independence; it sets the framework for a democratic social and economic dispensation which, if implemented imaginatively-- and giving priority to the politics of inclusion-- can lead to equitable and sustainable development in a much more inclusive manner than seen under the previous authoritarian regimes of Kenyatta, Moi, Kibaki and currently Uhuruto. Two, that the old order is not simply going to stand by and see the successful implementation of the Constitution. For example, is it possible for the Kenyan budget to be developed and used transparently? Can there be a total ventilation of the loans and debts acquired by the Kenyan government since independence? Can the dominant elites allow or tolerate the division of revenue between the counties and the national government to go beyond a certain threshold, thereby depriving this elite of the power to use the Presidency and its influence on the treasury in their favor? To what extent are the dominant elites going "to descend on the counties" and "devolve corruption" to the counties, essentially introducing a new form of "localized authoritarian systems" based in the Governors' offices?While the new constitution gives the political framework for the birth of a new democracy in Kenya, it remains merely a framework. Unfortunately, it is held hostage by the hangover of a presidential system that contradicts the spirit of devolution and inclusion permeating the constitution. There is therefore a need for the Constitution to be improved upon by introducing consociational democratic representation at the national government level that will integrate much better with a much more improved proportional representation of gender, youth and the disadvantaged. The constitution must be "brought to life", as it were, by the actions of political and social forces similar to those which pushed and struggled for the Second Liberation and the birth of the multi- party system. These are political forces and civil society movements and organisations that have always fought for the politics of inclusion. They must now realize that the implementation of the constitution will remain an unfinished agenda until the non-inclusive limitations of the Westminster model are overcome.Unfortunately Kenyan political parties have been organized with too much focus on winning presidential elections, to the extent that political elites seek to coalesce to get into state power through the Presidency much more than through better representation of the social forces and interests that give them support. A presidential authoritarian system for close to 50 years clearly predisposed elites to this culture of the politics of "state entrism". This means policies play second fiddle to the urge to organize and coalesce so as to win the presidency usually by building majorities along ethnic lines. To change this political culture, it is imperative that we do away with presidentialism in our political system and adopt a parliamentary system much more amenable to democratic representation and the politics of inclusion.Unfortunately, this debate on what is the suitable political system for this country is unlikely to appeal to the political class at this time because attention is already focused on the coming elections. Granted that improved electoral laws and a better constituted IEBC are likely to provide for a more democratic process and outcome in 2017, presidentialism and the winner-take-all political culture will still remain an albatross around our neck regarding who gets what, when and how. I do not see substantial improvement in the legitimacy of the coming government if the presidency continues to behave in the same way as it does today. Nor will our political parties stabilize. The shifting ethnic-based alliances in search of the presidency will continue to shift focus from developmental policies to the politics of survival and of accessing state power for personal accumulation.But the debate must continue. Fifteen years ago the advocates for Brexit did not know whether or when they would succeed. They finally did a couple of days ago. Likewise, those of us who believe a Parliamentary system of government is good for this country must persist and continue with the debate. We may not succeed in the short run. But in the long run I am sure we shall triumph, for this is the only way that a much better inclusive and democratic system of government will be possible in this country.