When you demolish a bird s nest from under the roof of your house, you have no obligation to give the irritant an alternative residence. Birds of the air, we are told, have no farms of their own but they thrive. Human beings, unlike birds, have constitutional rights. Article 43 ( 1 ) of the constitution says, Every person has the right to accessible and adequate housing, and to reasonable standards of sanitation. Government policy emphasizes access to housing, basic services, and infrastructure. Sessional Paper No 3 of 2004 on National Housing Policy for Kenya defines the overall goal of the housing policy as the desire to facilitate the provision of adequate shelter and a healthy living environment at an affordable cost to all socio-economic groups in order to foster sustainable human settlement .Building a seven-floor structure on a garbage-filled river contravenes this policy. It was high risk, even without a rainstorm. Someone designed, approved, and built this unsafe structure on a polluted river, knowing the shortcut was dangerous to human lives. Political correctness and corruption show no mercy to their victims.One of the condemned houses, a seven-storey eyesore, tumbled in a storm on April 29. After 10 days of search and rescue, heavy causalities have been reported. Fifty-one people are officially reported dead. Twenty-eight have not been accounted for. One hundred and forty have been rescued from the debris of the tenement. The survivors will be scarred for life because someone short-circuited the procedure. Human lives have been sacrificed for money. Children have been orphaned. Widowers and widows have been created. Families and relatives are struggling with funeral costs. Someone was cutting costs to mint millions of shillings in rent. Victims of the Huruma tragedy deserve better treatment than they got. The victims of the coming demolitions of condemned structures on the estate deserve better treatment than they will get. The residents have been told to move out, without being given an alternative abode. Other displaced residents of Huruma estate moved out last weekend, as bulldozers flattened their homes. The quit order has since been extended. But a three-month notice to vacate merely postpones the problem, while risking human lives. Most of the dispossessed, indeed nearly all of them had no choice. They rented rooms where they could afford. Some needed to be close to where they work - the firms in Ruaraka or the light industries in Kariobangi. Last Saturday, there were notices in Huruma estate advertising for Houses to Let in Dagoretti, several kilometres on the other side of Nairobi. The cost of moving household goods, rent, and security deposits were out of the bargain for the dispossessed. Moving them out during the first week of the month, days after they paid their rent for May, throws the victims of corruption into the wilderness of a callous Nairobi. A fraction of the yet-to-be-accounted-for billions of shillings set aside for El Nino damage should cushion the victims of the Huruma tragedy. The victims, unlike the birds of the air, need the means to reconstruct their lives.