It might be too late in the day for Nairobi City Stars and their fellow relegation candidates Sofapaka to save their top flight status but the duo are sparing no effort in that battle.While City Stars came away with a crucial win at Bandari, Sofapaka not only stifled champions Gor Mahia ambition for a record breaking fourth successive league title but they did their survival chances a world of good with the point from their goal-less draw that left coach David Ouma reasonably optimistic. Despite the fact that we have many youngsters in the team, you will agree with me that it is a strong team.Today, we played very well; the wingers were always focused and I liked ther fact that they had good breaks that unsettled Gor Mahia in at least four instances. I know Gor like to use the centre positions to finish their opponents so our tactic for the day was to close down the midfield and use the wings. The goalkeeper (Mathius Kigonya) was also fantastic. He made a number of very good saves and it is obvious that he will play for a bigger team in the near future, Ouma said in post-match interview.Though the point could not prevent the 2009 champions from bottom of the table, it enhanced Tusker s hopes of claiming an 11th top flight title as they sit seven points ahead of Gor with five matches left to play. Western Stima not thought of as pretenders to the national championship, are now in the reckoning after handing AFC Leopards a third successive defeat this season after similar triumphs in the first leg league encounter and the GOtv Shield. The power men, coached by Henry Omino, are now third with 40 points. These players followed instructions to the letter and I am most impressed with the defenders. They played their hearts out and I am happy that we are now back to the top three, Stima coach said after Wesley Kemboi s lone strike earned them victory over Ingwe on Saturday.Ulinzi Stars hopes for fifth crown were ended by a last minute goal by Chemelil Sugar striker Jared Obwoge as the Awasi-based sugar milers retained fourth position with 39 points. I am not happy with the result but I still think it was a good game.There was a reduced sense of urgency because the strikers kept wasting the chances they created and when Chemelil got their chance, they made use of it. We have lost but the spirit remains strong, lamenteded Ulinzi stand-in-coach Benjamin Nyanwgeso.