Police in Kiambu are looking for the driver who caused a multiple road accident at Ndenderu area along the Limuru Nairobi road that left four people dead on Sunday.Kiambu OCPD Johnstone Lyambila said the driver escaped from the scene, leaving the lorry he was driving and the occupants of the vehicles he hit screaming for help.Lyambila revealed that, the investigations they launched indicate that, the driver is hiding at a hospital in Thika where he is receiving treatment. We launched investigations of what happened before the accident. Our sources are informing us that the driver is at a hospital in Thika, and we have already sent our officers there and am sure he will be arrested and brought to the station Lyambila said. He cannot hide for so long. We shall arrest him so that he can help us in our investigations the OCPD said.Lyambila confirmed that, two people died on the spot while the other two died at Tigoni hospital and the other at the Kenyatta National Hospital.The accident happened when a lorry that was ferrying sand to Nairobi lost brakes as it was descending downhill at Ndenderu area, and the driver lost its control colliding with 11 vehicles and one motorcycle all heading to Limuru.A huge traffic jam ensued as the wreckage was left in the middle of the road while some victims were stuck inside the wrecks, screaming for help.Well-wishers including matatu crews helped rush the victims to different hospitals including Tigoni sub county and Kihara dispensary.However, five victims who were admitted at Kiambu hospital were discharged yesterday morning, but one victim with serious injuries remains in the hospital. Tigoni hospital medical boss Njeri Kairo said they received 13 victims and referred six to KNH. The rest were rushed to the Kiambu County hospital since they had sustained serious injuries and required specialized treatment.Dr Kairo confirmed that one girl died on arrival because she had bled profusely. We received 13 victims, but one girl died even before she was received at our casualty. We did first aid to the other twelve before we referred six to Kiambu and the others six to KNH. As of now we don t have casualties in our ward she said.The police boss also advised motorists to be very careful while driving during this wet season and also to ensure their vehicles are serviced and their parts were functioning as expected.