Can you hear that? What, you say? The silence. And you know what that silence is? It s the sound, or rather lack, of FKF President Nick Mwendwa not talking! Yes I went there! I m guilty of giving Mwendwa an open-ended invitation to come on The Score whenever he wanted to update Kenyans on what the federation was doing; but after losing to Guinea Bissau on home soil; even I said enough was enough! It was time for my friend to stop talking and start working quietly behind closed doors. I know he s been busy because he did have a plan to set up grass route structures; but he s also been busy trying to find a way to get the federation out of debt. I know that; even though he isn t speaking. As expected Harambee Stars dropped 12 places in the Fifa rankings this week and no-one was surprised. I m actually not worried about that because I trust that my federation President is working on the future. I hope to God he s working on the future and for now; even though he s not talking; I will give him the benefit of a doubt. I prefer it this way; the silence that is; but dear Nick; I hope there s a nice surprise for us when you next take the microphone to speak. I m still being positive about your administration but a time will come when we will stop saying: he s only been in office a few weeks! Good luck! Now; I congratulated Leicester City for winning the 2015/16 season last weekend after they saw off Southampton in a game with a controversial penalty.I won t dwell on the penalty or on decisions that were made against Southampton; because I know other teams (no names) who have also won the league by getting questionable penalties in their favour and who were once known as the Kings of M-Pesa! But let me get back to congratulating Leicester! What followed was an attack by some Arsenal fans saying I was fake because I didn t believe that Arsenal could still win the league. Some guy said a real fan would never give up on his or her team. Really! If you face reality then you are a fake fan? Wake up and smoke the roses fellow Gunners; we have been played this season and as per the nine years between May 2005 and May 2014; we are walking away with wait for it nothing! What hurts even more this season than those other nine years; is the fact that the two teams that are standing between us and the top are not any of the teams who finished above Arsenal in our nine dry years. I believe that Arsenal can win all her remaining games but I m being realistic about how many matches Leicester is likely to lose between now and the end of their six remaining matches. Here is a team that has lost three matches all season; home and away to Arsenal and against Liverpool; and are seven points clear at the top of the standings; and you re either asking them to lose two games or more at a time when they can smell their first league trophy ever! Or are you asking them to draw all their remaining games and trust that Spurs will also fail to falter along the way. That is being unrealistic. But I am confident that Arsenal can still finish second. Winning our game in hand over Spurs will take our gap to within a point. And Spurs have a really tough-ish game this Sunday. They re playing Man United and if the kids are in good shape given that we are on school holidays then the Red Devils will do us a favour. I am a loyal Gunner even when I criticise and even when I call for Wenger to go! So let s stop shouting from the rooftops about who is a bigger; more loyal Gunners than the other. Imagine one day Wenger will leave the Emirates and guess what? We ll still be Gooners! Talk to me on @CarolRadull on Twitter or www.facebook.com/CarolRadull