Imagine a busy day when you are due to visit a hairdresser or barber, have to finish up on some chama meetings, shop for that clothing item your child has been bugging you to get for days on end, reply to an urgent email and still squeeze in some time to eat.Well, all this can actually happen if one ever has a day like this. The answer is Soir e Gardens. Located on Kindaruma Road, off Ngong Road, this lovely restaurant fuses entertainment, relaxation and work environment perfectly. It is a one-stop shop with a spa, six rooms for customers who would want to stay overnight, WiFi, several private lounges for meetings, a unisex salon, car wash, clothing shop, Mpesa agent, Nyama Choma terrace and bars at strategic points within the gardens. For a relaxed working time in the plush gardens, Soir e has power points where one can plug in their laptop or any electronic device. Soir e's signature dish of sweet and sour grilled pork which is best served with saut ed potatoes will leave you asking for more. On Sundays, the restaurant has a family day setup featuring a bouncing castle and kiddie snacks such as french fries, choma sausage, mshikaki (skewered meat) and samosas and background instrumental as well as oriental music for the ultimate relaxing experience. For those who fancy an outside meeting, a tented terrace area at the back of the restaurant is recommendable. It has a capacity of 80 people. On weekdays, Soiree offers an ideal venue for business meetings with healthy breakfast menu available from 7am to 11am and lunch served as from 11.30 am in a quiet setting. In the evenings customers are treated to a variety of cool dj music, Monday is a mixture of genres, Tuesday soul, Wednesday Rhumba, Thursday Karaoke and Fridays is popular music mix.And true to the meaning of its name Soiree which denotes an evening party or gathering, typically in a private house, for conversation or music, the restaurant is an old-style English house transformed to offer the ultimate grown-up outing that lacks nowadays amid an upsurge of clubs. It is a valuable and rewarding leisure experience.