 Badum! Badum! Badum! Walking down a pavement to a tented garden, the guests of Babishai Poetry Festival 2016 shook off the cobwebs of travel to these beats. The drums went silent for a narrative about a boy from Kampala, restarted, and paused for the next member in the circle to chip in.This set the pace for a creative marathon from that August 24 to 26 in Uganda s capital city. Attendees enjoyed brainstorming sessions on everything from sexual to spiritual writing, and insightful performances from Ghana, Kenya, Liberia, South Africa and the host nation, punctuated by blindfolded dashes to the bookstand.Namagunga Primary School brought Okot p Bitek s Song of Lawino to life, Winnie the Love Poet Apio charmed hearts with passionate lines, and Oswald the Entertainer Okaitei was a spectacle right from his gear: a Fulani hat, a kente shawl, beads round his neck, a gourd on his back and a mbira accompaniment. You look like a witch doctor, a guest remarked.Creative facilitator Ife Piankhi rejuvenated guests with some rousing Afrikan yoga, while rapper Lydia L-Ness Akwabi choreographed a recital about The old man from Kampala , before calling the house to Order! The fiesta culminated in an awarding ceremony, in which Kenya s Sanya Noel and, in absentia, Nigeria s Orimoyole Moyosore, jointly won the $700 (Sh70,000 ) prize. It marked the second festival proper and eighth contest overall by Beverley Nambozo s Babishai Niwe foundation.CAIRO-TO-CAPE TOWN CARAVANIn an open session moderated by Open Mic Uganda director Shiraz Murray, attendees discussed the idea of a continental Poetry Caravan in 2018. They talked of owning the African narrative, factoring in local languages and charting a digital path.Uganda Women Writers Association (Femrite) executive director Hilda Twongyeirwe explained the roots of the initiative. Femrite runs a Uganda Writers Caravan, and for two to three years, we ve been talking about a Cairo-to-Cape Town Writers Caravan, but we ve not managed it. So this is an opportunity for us to team up with BN and other interested parties to showcase our writings around the continent. Beverley said it would entail traversing Anglophone, Francophone and Lusophone countries, appreciating the spoken word form in the lingua franca, and gathering stories along the way. The question is: Is it possible, why is it necessary, and how; and let s think like financial resources aren t the problem, she said.Oswald said possibility hinges on a proactive approach. Africans talk too much. What is the way forward? We should connect with our established authors. They could sacrifice some of their books to raise funds. Babishai can bring poets from all parts of Africa, get them published and find a way to push it. Let us get sponsorship from our governments and hold shows to raise funds. While hailing poetry as more accessible than books or novels, Yearnings of a Traveller poet Lekpele Nyamalon touched on the why . The authenticity of African stories can only come from Africans themselves, he said. Many times, our stories have been told by non-Africans, and they ve focused on Afro-pessimism civil war, failed states, corruption, bad governance whereas there are beautiful stories about Africa. But in a rejoinder, Ghosts of 1894 author Oduor Jagero said, This idea of blaming the West is aging. I don t like it. Africans have behaved badly. When Americans are talking about the war in Congo, it s still going on. It s a story. Does it really matter if an American writes about people killing each other or if a Congolese writes about it? It s still death. So we need to be honest with ourselves. English-to-Lumasaba translator George Manana touched on the how , calling for African languages to be included. Much as we are promoting poetry, we should also take the liberty to write that poetry in our languages, not just English or French, he said. Our languages are dying not because they don t have value, but because we are not excavating them. Spoken word artiste Ngartia Brian added: We can start mapping out the stories. I subscribe to the religion of social media. We can foster a conversation online as we figure out how to do it offline. POETS TRUMP PUBLIC SPEAKERSThe Kampala Toastmasters Challenge was a verbal duel between four poets and four public speakers for free books and a ticket to the awarding ceremony. Emcee Phillip Matogo s wit provided comic relief to the tension of knockouts and the burden of judging placed on Caine Prize 2011 shortlistee Beatrice Lamwaka, Lekpele and this writer.Stephano Kiyemba was the toast of the first round with a hilarious piece titled The Detention Centre. Contestants brought out props in the second round, including tree branches, gadgets and even a tie (Paul Kavuma), but Winnie s use of Shiraz as a live prop took the crown. Looking into his eyes, she churned out romantic lines from her poem You, and there were oohs and aahs when she wrapped up with, I love you. In a sizzling battle of eloquence and imagery, it all boiled down to thinking on your feet in a final round between Winnie on the poets side and Paul on the public speakers . The audience challenged them to come up with a presentation using water bottle as a theme, with only two minutes each to think about it.Paul cooked up an anecdote about the day a water bottle saved his life, while Winnie used the object metaphorically to chronicle a relationship with a man I thought I could see right through . By 17 to 14 audience votes, Winnie pipped her rival to the oratory throne. KEEPING ABREAST OF FEMINISMDuring the African Feminism in Poetry session, A Nation in Labour poet Harriet Anena revealed that the sensational I bow for my boobs poem was a last-minute addition to her collection. It s about a man coming home drunk and shouting. The wife strips, holds her breasts and fumes at him. Readers reaction? A lot of people have sent me messages to send them pictures of my boobs, she said.Hilda asked her why she turned an instrument of pleasure into the weapon to fight a man. ( An instrument of nutrition, author Chuma Nwokolo quipped. I didn t know it was for pleasure. )Harriet said: Nudity is a form of protest where I come from. When a woman strips to her underwear, it s considered a curse. The persona in this poem is a village woman, so It only makes sense that the only weapon she would think of is her boobs. If she was an urban woman, she would probably think of something else. ( Rat poison, Chuma mused.)Marketer Vaolah Amumpaire said feminism confuses her as it removes existing structures she, as a Christian, abides by. If the Bible tells me a woman should obey her husband, how do you interpret that with feminism? she asked. Ife said the Bible is a very ancient book and urged Vaolah to cross-reference. Co-panelist L-Ness added, When the Bible says submit , it doesn t mean you need to be under the man. If the man is the king, the woman s place is at the right-hand side the queen. Manana complained about the panel s all-female composition. Feminism includes men who can fight for the liberation of women. So next time, include men in that panel. BABISHAI S GROWING PAINSA heated debate arose in the What Are Ugandan Women Poeting About? session, moderated by this writer. From 2009-13, Babishai was a women s competition. Ever since its expansion to include not just men but the whole continent, Ugandan women have kissed it goodbye , as a former finalist put it. It didn t help matters that this year s award went on to be won by men again, including a Nigerian for the second year running. Harriet said Babishai opened up the literary space in Uganda. Upon opening it up to Africa, people froze, she said. Also, expanding it risks making it lose focus and quality. She cited Nigeria s protectionism. Nigerians are very selfish when it comes to their interests. Ngartia said Nigerians are not necessarily better. We re disliking Nigerians for working harder than us. He said it s too late to roll back Babishai. The question is, how do you jump-start the Ugandan [women] writers again? How do you make them face the fear of Nigerians? Chuma explained what makes Nigerians tick. Go back and excavate your culture, he said. When Nigerian artistes started singing in Yoruba, even the Americans were surprised. It turned out that Afrobeat can be commercial. He urged aspiring poets to Do it because it s true, because it s unique. Don t copy America. Be yourself. Babishai 2009 winner Lillian Aujo said local women should not be intimidated. Ugandans should still go for it, she said.Oswald said Babishai had become synonymous with Uganda. It was not right to expand. It should ve stayed the same and driven [continental] contributions to an anthology. Hilda urged Ugandan women to Just write, not just because there s Babishai. There are many writings, but there are still stories to be told. She also advised them to write balanced life perspectives and not just pain-filled stories, after suffering emerged a predominant theme in previous entries.Turning to Beverley, she asked what informed Babishai s expansion. Did the circumstances for Ugandan women change? Beverley said in fact, Babishai had wanted to celebrate Ugandan women poets in 2016. There was a call for women poets. The response was negligible, she said, noting that the submissions could be counted on one hand. The board will meet Ugandan women to address the problem. QUOTABLE QUOTES- Africans do talk about sex; we just don t talk about it enough or well. Poetry is a reflection of society. If we want to talk about something, the way to do it is poetry. A Side of Raunch author Abigail Arunga during the session on The Place of Sensuality in Poetry .- If your work is not good enough to be stolen, it s not good enough. blogger James Murua during the Online Content Management session, in response to singer Caesar Obong s fears of content theft.- They took away our songs, but they could not take away our voices. They took away our dancers but they could not take away our dances. They took away our boxes but they could not take away our funerals. They took away our ancestors but they could not take away our land. Oswald during his Poetry Entrepreneurship talk.A quiet boy beneath a loud hat, Tom Jalio won the Babishai Poetry Award in 2014 with the heartbreak poem, There was once something special here (http://bit.ly/1wAztpz). It has since been translated into Dutch, French, German, Italian and Spanish.