The government hopes to find a permanent solution to unending feuds between the management of the national carrier Kenya Airways and pilots, Tourism CS Najib Balala said yesterday.He asked the pilots to give dialogue a chance, saying Tuesday's planned industrial action will hurt the recovering tourism industry. Malala yesterday said a Cabinet meeting yesterday resolved to help end the stalemate. A strike will not solve the problems. There are talks already ongoing with the pilots to resolve the issue. Dialogue is the best solution, Balala said, during the ongoing Magical Kenya Travel Expo in Nairobi. He said downing tools will inconvenience travellers, and hurt the recovery plan for the struggling national carrier. That is how you bring your airline down, Balala said, urging pilots to remain patient. On Tuesday, the Kenya Airline Pilots Association gave a one week ultimatum for an overhaul of the top management led by CEO Mbuvi Ngunze and board chairman Dennis Awori, failing which its members will down tools from next Tuesday. Balala said changes will be made, but the government has to follow procedures since Kenya Airways is a listed firm. In the next one month you will see a restructured KQ. That is the commitment we have as government, he said, although he did not reveal if the government will give in to the pilots demand for the exit of the top bosses. The national carrier has witnessed a rising staff attrition, a challenge the chief executive said is a matter of concern . The exit of pilots and engineers has been blamed on recent frequent cancellation and delays of KQ flights. About 75 pilots and 50 engineers have left the airline in the last one and a half years, Kalpa said on Tuesday. It is feared the airline may lose 35 more pilots who have applied for jobs with rival rich Middle East airlines Qatar Airways and Emirates. The exodus is motivated by fatter packages, Kalpa secretary general Paul Gichinga said. Kalpa said its members will from 5am October 18, 2016, down tools until a comprehensive change of guard at Kenya Airways is effected.In July, the airline announced a Sh26.2 billion after tax loss for the full year ended March 31.