Nairobi senator Mike Sonko on Friday disrupted a funeral service shouting that he was the acting president of Kenya.Sonko went to the funeral of Dolamu Oduwole, husband to Machakos governor hopeful Wavinya Ndeti.He died after his blood pressure shot up."Rais Uhuru is in Togo, DP William Ruto ako France I am number three in command politically and socially. I am now the acting president of the republic of Kenya," he said.Read: Uhuru departs for AU maritime security summit in Togo"All these police officers and vehicles you see are here because am now the acting President."Sonko who was asked to wind up his speech after talking for more than 10 minutes began shouting to the master of ceremony telling him to leave him alone.The seemingly angered Sonko then walked towards the MC and tried to throw a punch warning him not to switch off his microphone."You can't do that to me. When Raila was talking no one disrupted him," he said"Hapana shika mimi...Taka taka gasia nyinyi. Wasituletee Kwendeni kabisa huko." Loosely translated to (do not touch me, you are garbage, don't dare us, get out of here. Get out.)After a while, the Nairobi governor aspirant was asked to read the speech of president Uhuru Kenyatta but when he began, the crowd started shouting and murmuring."Unadhani hapa ni Jubilee" 'Kwenda huko" others were heard shouting as people started leaving the arena.His behavior compelled Cord leader Raila Odinga who was present during the service to leave accompanied by his bodyguards.Earlier on, Raila who spoke to the crowd assured them that there would not be politics in the funeral. "We came for a burial. But you can see Kalonzo is here, Wetang'ula is here and myself. We are together. It is the media spreading rumors that Cord will split, said Raila. Raila termed reports that Kalonzo and Wetang ula will break from the coalition as rumours. They say Wetang ula will leave, that Kalonzo will also go and that Raila will go it alone. All these are rumours, he added.Read: Cord to meet to hammer out 2017 deal