EMBU County Assembly Speaker Justus Kariuki Mate has had to undergo counseling following the harrowing abduction experience two years ago.Mate was abducted outside Utalii Hotel along Thika Road in May 2014 and resurfaced five days later. I celebrate that I am still alive even though some people have reduced the ordeal into a comedy, he says. I am happy that I am alive to tell the story irrespective of what others think. There is no comedy around Jacob Juma's death. There is no comedy around the death of lawyer Willy Kimani, taxi driver Joseph Muiruri or even Josephat Mwenda. Mate believes it will be difficult to forgive his abductors. I have God to thank, but it is difficult to forgive because I am only human. I leave it to God to execute justice. The father of two boys and Governor Martin Wambora have not been the best of friends, a relationship that is largely a microcosm of the politics of Embu county that pits the Embu and the Mbeere. It is this strained relationship that fanned conspiracy theories when the speaker was at the mercy of the abductors.But Mate says things between them have thawed considerably in recent times, motivated by the desire of both of them to deliver services to the people.The governor has never forgiven the speaker, out of a feeling that the latter was the mastermind of two impeachment motions against him.The motions succeeded and, on both occasions, the Senate went ahead to reaffirm the decision of the County Assembly.But Wambora never went home. He got a court order that has sustained him in office to this day. The Judiciary is deaf to issues of public good. Wambora was impeached in the public interest and there is no way his rights override those of the people of Embu, he says.Mate also rejects insinuations that MCAs have no capacity to oversee the county chiefs. The qualifications for MCAs are the same as those of Members of the National Assembly or even the Senate. Mate says corruption in the counties is unequaled and unparalleled and if not checked could drive the country into a catastrophe. We need to reconfigure our system to provide for instant justice mechanisms of dealing with corruption. This requires immediate redress. He hopes to defend his seat as Speaker, but reveals he has a dream of being bigger and better . I want another five years so that I can leave behind a strong County Assembly with enhanced capacity to legislate, oversight and represent. I see myself being active in county politics for a long time. *********1974: Born in Kanywabora village, Embu county, the same village that Speaker Justin Muturi and Lenny Kivuti hail from. 1981: Started formal education at Kanywabora Primary School, where he did his KCPE in 1989. He scored 98 per cent in KCPE Maths, which he says is a record that stands to this day.1990: Joined St Paul High School, Kevote. He did his KCSE in 1993.1995: Egerton University, graduated with a BA in Economics in 1999.2000: Worked at the Kenya Student Christian Fellowship as a Field Officer until 2002.2003: Employed at Parliamentary Service Commission as support staff for the Official Opposition, Kanu, then headed by Uhuru Kenyatta.2004: Jomo Kenyatta University of Advanced Technology, MSc in Human Resources Management. 2007: He was fully absorbed into the PSC as a Parliamentary employee, where he worked in the Human Resource Department.2012: Resigned from PSC to join Uhuru Kenyatta Presidential campaign as an assistant campaign manager.2013: Elected Speaker, Embu County Assembly.2015: Jomo Kenyatta University of Advanced Technology, PhD in leadership and governance.****2015: The EACC graft index which ranked Embu as the second most corrupt after Murang a County in corruption is very true. Public views should be taken seriously. Let us not live in denial. The rate of pilferage of public funds orchestrated by senior county officials is very high and remedial measures should be taken urgently to save the county. There is massive corruption in Embu county. 2016: "Even if the theory of self-abduction were true, then at least it is only logical that the proponents should adduce evidence. Let me be arrested and arraigned in court, prosecuted and jailed for fooling an entire nation. In the absence of this, let the perpetrators of my abduction be brought to book. If there is something the investigators know, or some stones left unturned, for me is when these stones will be turned and what is found beneath. Instead of being given expeditious and conclusive justice and my abductees brought to book, those events have exposed me to ridicule. The way the . . . propaganda machinery . . . was rolled out, is not known to me to date."