ODM leader Raila Odinga last week visited the Coast to drum up support for the party. In Kwale, Raila asked why Governor Salim Mvurya defected to the Jubilee Party even after he had personally assured the county chief of fair nominations. Raila said JP is a dangerous destination.Unlike other defectors from this region, including Lamu Governor Issa Timamy, Mvurya s exit has elicited strong reaction from, among others, ODM supporters and professionals in Kwale.Yet, Kwale is not necessarily an ODM zone like Mombasa, Kilifi and Taita Taveta, which overwhelmingly voted for the party in 2013. Apart from the governor, the county in 2013 elected leaders from various political parties, including Ford Kenya, Kadu Asili and Jubilee.Without a doubt, Mvurya is one of the best performing governors at the Coast. His management style has been rated highly by independent and government development agencies. Twice, Mvurya has served as deputy chairman of the Council of Governors.However, beneath the governor s impressive performance is his unease in ODM. Mvurya s tribulations in ODM began in 2013, when some party supporters wanted him denied the party nomination certificate. Since then, Mvurya has been under siege from people who have threatened to deny him the ODM ticket in the primaries ahead of the 2017 elections.During his visit to Kwale, Raila told the people of Kinango, Mvurya s birthplace, that he personally helped him win the governor race in 2013. This means that had it not been for Raila s intervention, Mvurya would perhaps have been denied the ODM nomination certificate.Despite Raila s reassurance that ODM nominations will be free and fair, many aspirants remain skeptical, fearful and disillusioned. They fear a repeat of 2013, when nomination certificates were dished out to a chosen few.Mvurya remembers this scenario only too well, Having seen politicians like Omar Zonga of Lunga Lunga and Mohammed Mwandaro of Msambweni denied ODM nominations in 2013, there was no way I would remain in ODM to face a similar fate. The truth is that I cannot stay in ODM for the next general election and wait to cry. Whether his decision to bow out of ODM will cost him votes is neither here nor there. It was a conscientious decision on his part. Complaints against ODM nominations are not new. What is new is the rise in the number of senior politicians abandoning the party, citing similar reasons. Memories of ODM nominations being bungled at the Coast in 2013 are still vivid. Who says 2017 will be any different?The point is, the rising number of defections is, in part, occasioned by ODM officials themselves. It is their undoing. There are many ODM supporters and aspirants who wish to seek nomination but uncertainly drives them away.This is the biggest challenge ODM faces at the Coast. The sooner the party leaders address this challenge the better. It is certainly a state of mind. ODM is still the party of choice at the Coast. However, the leaders attitude that you are either with us or not only propels more defections and rejections, which may in turn affect ODM s popularity in due time. The times are changing and politics is certainly never static.