Every morning, Cherangany MP Wesley Korir wakes up longing to kill three birds with one stone. He has to divide his between his parliamentary business and his training regiment at Nyayo National Stadium and also attend to his family obligations. It was hard at the beginning to divide my time, says the 34-year old, first term legislator and the 2012 Boston Marathon winner and two-time Los Angeles marathon wins. But I have managed to balance it. I wake up early in the morning and do my exercise and by 9 o clock I am done after which I go to parliament. Sometimes he changes tack and does training in the evening. After House sittings he swaps his suit for his training gear and drives to Nyayo stadium to do his speed work. It requires a lot of discipline, dedication and passion. It is passion that drives him into achieving his tasks. If you what you do, you are most inclined to find time for it and this is what motivates me. and it is this passion that he will need in huge amounts now that another important national task has been thrust to his lean shoulders.Athletics Kenya has picked him, alongside 2016 London Marathon winner Eliud Kipchoge and the 2015 New York Marathon Stanley Biwott to fly the national flag at the Olympic Games in Rio de Jenairo in Brazil in August.He was drafted in the team after he raced in the 2016 in Boston Marathon where he finished in the fourth position. I am excited by the prospects of racing in the Olympics. I am in the company of a great team of talented individuals and I hope we shall do proud to our country. We shall meet as a team and organise our tactics and even if it means sacrificing our individual interests we shall have to do it, if we have to recapture the late Samuel Wanjiru s title he won in 2008.Born in Trans Nzoia County, Korir defied strong political party wave from the ruling Jubilee coalition to be elected MP as an independent candidate in the 2013 general election. He trounced one of URP s bigwigs Joshua Kuttuny.He was elected on the back of the projects he had initiated even before joining active politics. He had built a dispensary at his Biribiriet village, bought an ambulance and provided clean water to the community as well as educating children through proceeds from running exploits.One of his brothers died of a snake bite. He died on the way because hospitals were far off. It was in memory of his brother that he constructed an hospital and went a step further to buy an ambulance. He provided clean piped water because I used to get sick of typhoid and by getting clean water is a way of eliminating diseases. I ventured into politics while still an active athlete with the intention of transforming the lives of my community, he says.He was then still in the US but he was active in initiating development projects back home and helping children with poor backgrounds go to school through Kenya Kids Foundation.As did all these, he noticed high discrepancies in resource allocation and development across the country. Some areas were well developed while others were not. Tribalism was rife, he says, pointing out that he could pay school fees for children but the available infrastructure worked against that.It was this state of affairs that motivated him to join politics to try to improve the lives of many in Cherangany.After his graduated in 2008 with a bachelor s degree in biology at University of Louisville, he returned home fully prepared to try his luck in politics. But there was a challenge. Being new in Kenyan politics, the probability of getting a party ticket was almost zero as he had no godfather in politics. I didn t know anyone. I had never met Uhuru Kenyatta, William Ruto or Raila Odinga. I decided to go as an independent candidate, says the legislator, who is also the vice chair of the joint committee on broadcasting and library of the national assembly. He spent time on educating people not to look at the party but focus on the qualities of every individuals contestant.Convincing and winning the hearts of the electorate through an independent ticket was not a walk in the park since he had to go an extra mile in explaining what it meant. It wasn t easy. Few knew what an independent candidate was because it was the first time ever someone was contesting on it after the new constitution transformation, he explains.At first, it was near to impossible because people were highly entrenched into political party and he knew he had an outside chance to win on either URP or ODM. At first when I told people that I was running on an independent candidate ticket, they were against it and brushed me off. After he won, he became an instant hit, with both the ruling and opposition coalitions approached him seeking support their different sides. I had promised my electorate I will work with the government. I will support what is good and tell them the truth when they go wrong, Korir explains. When you look at the constitution, the work of an MP is oversight that is why we should not be having legislators taking sides. When the bill comes to parliament and it will benefit Kenyans why not support it? .He is enjoying his position as an independent MP terming it a sign of independence as there is no pressure unlike when one is aligned to a political party. Apart from various activities involving an MP what I focus on is how to serve my electorate and I enjoy it since I have no pressure emanating from political parties. And how does he balance between legislation, running and being a family man? My independence from political parties has given me time to plan my time effectively; from the training regime and House business and my family.But he is full of self praise of his development achievements in the brief period he has been MP. He has used his rich-contacts to transform the constituency including getting funds from Facebook founders to start Dairy Farming projects. I came and fixed imbalances in terms of resource sharing through Constituency Development Fund which in the past was a preserve of few people. His priority was to treat equally every ward in his constituency and unite them so that the constituency could realize the fruits of developments as one indivisible entity. Every village in the constituency is enjoying bursaries and mud-walled schools have been replaced with stone walls. I started operation called Ondoa Matope Cherangany. With the funding from his friends in the US, Korir established a multi-million school uniform making project at St. Joseph s Vocational Training Centre Kaplamai which sells uniform to all schools for half the market price.The aim of the project was to lower the school expenses and create employment for young people with technical skills. My vision is to make this project sustainable and benefit the community by way of reducing the high cost of school uniforms for parents and employing our young people with skills in dressmaking. He also started Elimu Fund where parents with a cow and in the co-operative gets their children school fees paid as they take their milk to the co-operative. I was born in a poor family and what I am trying to do is to alleviate poverty amongst our people and build an economically stable society, he explains. if it was not for a priest who paid my school fees, I would be a nobody that is why I have started a Transcend Running Academy in order to offer them scholarships, he says. The academy based in Suwerwo as well as Kids Foundation he started with his wife Tarah McKay.With 2017 elections approaching Korir says he will defend his seat because his intention is to make his empower his people. I will consult with my electorate if they will allow me to join a party or vie as an independent candidate but for I love being independent. Being the first sitting MP to be included in the Olympic team, he is about to make another history as his wife is also seeking a ticket to represent Canada in the same Olympics.