Raila Odinga's wife Ida on Tuesday downplayed reports that ODM has a list of preferred candidates for various seats in the 2017 polls.She assured aspirants that they will all be subjected to free and fair primaries, adding that the party's leadership will not allow sham nominations. Ida told supporters to disregard what she termed as "cheap propaganda only meant to tarnish the party's reputation and demoralise members". "I have personally asked 'Jakom' (Raila) over the alleged list of preferred of candidates and he assured me that there is no such a thing," she said. She said that she will not allow aspirants to toil during campaigns only to be subjected to unfair nominations. "We must ensure all candidates are given fair and leveled play ground so that the electorate can second leaders of their choice," Ida said. She stressed that Raila will not impose candidates on people, but will work with those who will be elected by voters. Read: Raila pledges free, fair Cord nominations Ida said those dissatisfied with the nominations outcome will have an opportunity to appeal."It must be conducted in a way that losers will support candidates who beat them," she added.Also read: Current ODM governors 'deserve' direct tickets - Ranguma Raila's wife made the comments at Mamboleo Showground when presiding over a function convened by the Kisumu county government.The county rolled out a Sh17.5 million livestock support programme targeting a total of 350 women groups.The groups received dairy cows, dairy goats, local goat and sheep breeds, fowls and beehives. Ida also took issue with politicians fond of using youths to cause chaos in funerals and political rallies. She proposed that such politicians should be disqualified from contesting elective seats to help restore sanity in Kenyan politics. "Youths must devote their energy to income generating activities instead of accompanying politicians to funerals to cause animosity," she said.Ida asked MCAs, MPs, Senators and governors to desist from hiring youths to accompany them to political functions for purposes of heckling, intimidating and harassing their rivals. "We must stop such old politics and embrace tolerance to enable us win support from other regions," she added. Ida also asked women to make good use of the leadership opportunities that have come with the new constitution."Women should not wait to be nominated but should fight for elective positions. In fact, we have numbers to elect more women so that we nominate men," she said.Read: Ruto tells Raila to support IEBC nominations role if committed to fair pollAlso read: Party hopping to help in having fair nominations