She sits pensively and patiently on the waiting bench, her eyes gazing at the sky with only one hope-that time would allow her to catch the attention of the doctor reviewing patients.Habiba Ugas, 27, and a mother of three, has walked 50 kilometres to seek medical attention at Wajir Referral Hospital after years of agony and stigmatisation.Despite the exhaustion after the long and excruciating journey, Habiba crosses her fingers and hopes for the better. I boarded a camel for like ten kilometres but the animal fell sick and was taken back home by my husband. I had no choice but to trek the remaining distance, Habiba says as she breastfeeds her one-and half-year old baby girl suckle.She realises that I am keenly observing the child and then turns the child the opposite side and quips, This is where we just count days to the grave, life is not life here, we are on our own death beds, who cursed us? She and her baby have cleft lips and like many patients on the queue, they have travelled tens of kilometres to access treatment from a team of volunteer doctors who have pitched camp in town.The only hope they have is to get treatment and fight off stigma and discrimination that is associated with the condition. Cleft lip conditions are prevalent across Wajir and medical experts attribute the rampant condition to prolonged use of some drugs, hereditary or environmental factors.Habiba says she got information about the camp after it was announced through a local vernacular radio station a week earlier and has been travelling for three days before she reached the facility where visiting doctors offered free treatment. We stay inside the manyattas but we have a small radio through which we get informed about the outside world, we heard that a doctor will be here and decided to try our luck, she says as she reaches into her worn out small bag for water. It has been a long journey, do you see this bottle? It is what has kept me walking all this long. Here, I carry water to give me some more energy, Habiba says.She and hundreds of people have turned up at the hospital for the free medical camp organised by a team of doctors and facilitated by Wajir Women representative Fatuma Ibrahim.The camp was organised by Wajir women representative Fatuma Ibrahim in conjunction with Help a Child Face Tomorrow, a non-governmental organisation. My office organised this camp and I am impressed with the turn up. We did this first in September 2014 but despite hiccups here and there we have delivered this again this year, Fatuma says.Fatuma says despite the meager resources she receives under the Affirmative Action Fund, she will not stop at anything to alleviate the health suffering of the poor, particularly vulnerable women and childrenThe seven-day medical camp is meant to address the medical needs of hundreds of pastoralists in Wajir county facing medical complications that have not been attended to for decades.Some are walking in and out while others are on a long queue to catch the attention of the doctor. Unperturbed by the harsh weather conditions, the patients have thrown the otherwise quiet hospital into a beehive of activities.Mama Fatuma Ibrahim, 72, is among hundreds of elderly people seeking treatment and has been waiting for this rare opportunity for the last three days with bated breath.She travelled from Habaswein, some 110 kilometres from Wajir town, and tells us that she got the news of the visiting doctors through her sister who also heard it from the radio.She is partially blind and hopes that cataracts in her eyes are removed so that she can see and feel the happiness and splendor of the outside world that she has been missing.Dr Meshack Ong uti is leading a multidisciplinary team of medical doctors who have volunteered to put a smile on the faces of the suffering poor and vulnerable through the free medical camps.He performs the surgery and within 20 minutes, Mama Fatuma walks out of the theatre room with her worst suffering fixed-she can now be able to see in the next seven days-a dream that has eluded her for more than ten years now.Some 495 patients were screened on various complications that resulted in 145 surgeries during the seven-day mission last week. We are committed to giving hope and power to the vulnerable. Our mission is to offer free medical treatment to the vulnerable at the most equipped and nearest facility possible, said Ong uti. Ours is service and service alone to ensure that we help patients recover and return to their normal life. We are committed to assisting poor Kenyans live their life, he adds.In the newly refurbished male wards, Mohamed Mahamoud, 78, has just been discharged from surgery and is in high spirits. A doctor fixed a scrotal abnormality that had pained him for many years. I was taken to Garissa District hospital but was discharged before the problem was addressed, but here I have received first class service and I am now okay and ready to go home, Mohammed says in fluent English.He says the Doctors just took at most 20 minutes to correct the problem that had resulted in the swelling of his scrotum. I am now raring to go, actually ready to go and perform other duties, he chuckles at the hospital bed.County executive health committee member Rukia Kahiye says the county government has pumped in millions in refurbishing the hospital to Level 5 standards.The government recently delivered state of the art medical equipment under the medical leasing programme to compliment the county s efforts to improve delivery of quality health-care. We have motivated our staff, we have all the basic equipment to perform surgeries in this hospital. It is a milestone after many years and we hope with time we will turnaround the lives of our people, she says.(+) Reasons for the health campsMedical camps contribute to the improvement and access to health services particularly for the extremely poor residents who have been nursing horrifying and painful medical conditions that required urgent intervention.This is achievable if more funds such as the Equalisation and Affirmative Funds are increased to support and cater for the poor and vulnerable groups with specialised treatment.