James Kenani shakes his head slowly in disapproval. I should be the MP for Nyaribari Chache, he says softly, revealing an obvious measure of disappointment. I am a life member of Ford People but what my colleagues did was an affront to democracy. Kenani had contested the seat in 2013 and lost on Ford People ticket. Chris Bichage who had been declared the winner had his victory overturned by the court; precipitating a by-election.To his horror, machinations in his own party saw him denied him the nomination certificate.Richard Tong i was given the nomination certificate even though he had been Wiper Party s candidate for the seat in the 2013 general election.Angry at the betrayal, Kenani defected to National Labour Party but again, lost in the by-election. I had been preaching the Ford People gospel. For long I had championed the interests of the party but I was betrayed by the same people who are selling the party to Jubilee, he explains.He says because of his long association with the party, people voted for his rival in the hope they were voting for him. The MP has failed; he has no impact because he is riding on my popularity. Having served as the manager of CDF when Simeon Nyachae was the MP, Kenani believes he has what it takes to steer the constituency to the top.His motivation arises from the fact that during his time Nyaribari Chache was ranked the second most effective CDF fund in the country, second to Peter Kenneth s Gatanga.In particular, the many probelms faced by the people of Nyaribari Chache compelled him to intervene and seek solutions to the many challenges facing the people.Lack of transparency in the utilization of CDF, the bursary fund and the failure to involve the people in project implementation are some of the driving force of his interest in the seat. I am not looking for greatness. I am looking for an opportunity to serve the people and take care of their resources, he says.He was a member of the Board at Kenya Pipeline Corporation, later chairman, at a time the parastatal was in the news for the wrong reasons. But he walked away without a whiff of corruption being following him. Top on his to-do list is to ensure the people get value for their resources. He is focused on improving education standards, improve the road infrastructure and ensure that agricultural production is given utmost support. Education is the best gift one given to children and it is top on my list, he says.********1947: Born in Riondoga, Kisii County.1956: Attended Riondoga, Bugema Primary Schools and later Nyanchio Intermediate School where he did his CPE in 1962.1963: Kamagambo Secondary School, O level exams in 1966.1967: Kisii High School, A level exams 1968.1969: University of Nairobi, Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics, Geography and Education graduated in 1971.1971: Kisii High School, Teacher and Deputy Head until 1973, later promoted to Headmaster - Nduru Secondary School until 1981.1975: University of Birmingham, Certificate in Education Administration.1985: Ministry of Education, Director, Kenya Education Staff Institute until 1986.1994: Kenya Commercial Bank, Public Relations Manager until 19961996 - Head of Corporate Affairs KCB until 2002.Quotes:2014: There are cartels fleecing farmers in the tea and coffee farms in Kisii and Nyamira counties. The produce collected from the farms differs significantly from what is recorded in the record books in factories. In other words there is a cadre of farmers who own no inch of coffee or tea farms but are some of the biggest producers. They get their produce by skimming from what is presented by genuine farmers. We need to get rid of this cartel and also help agricultural production by ensuring extension officers help our farmers with the knowledge and skills of cultivating the crop.2016: The inequality in sharing resources in Nyaribari Chache is bordering on clannism. This can cause conflicts among clans. It is important that every village in the constituency gets a share of nation resource. If the resources are shared equitably where everybody is brought on board to benefit, there will peace and prosperity in the constituency.2016: God has been kind to the people of Nyaribari Chache. He has given us everything and all blessings, but corruption is killing everything God has granted to us.