THE struggle to control Kiambu politics pits the elite and Thika businessmen. The Kiambu elite first fronted former Rockefeller Foundation regional MD James Nyoro (pictured), who came second in the 2013 elections. It is alleged they partly funded his campaigns. They are said to have supported former Embakasi MP Ferdinand Waititu to go for the Kabete seat during a by-election, after the death of MP George Muchai in February last year. Corridors is told they intended to use this as a launch pad for the governor race against William Kabogo. Corridors has also learnt the elite are now pushing former Kenyatta University Vice chancellor Prof Olive Mugenda to run for Kiambu governor. It is becoming increasingly unclear whether they have abandoned Waititu or what their game plan is. ***** SOCIAL media is awash with claims that a Nairobi MCA, Wangui Ng ang a, who wants to be Nairobi woman representative, was recently outclassed by her rivals Esther Passaris and Rosa Buyu of ODM on a TV talk show. Those in the know say Wangui doesn t know what JP stands for. It is said she told the anchor it is the abbreviation for Tuko Pamoja . This was after Buyu was asked what ODM stands for and said social democracy . Passaris reportedly teased Wangui that Tuko Pamoja means uniting the nation .***** CORRIDORS is asking if some political aspirants are serious or just seeking their 15 minutes of fame. Okay, it is that time of the political calendar when people declare their interest in various political seats. However, some who cannot even get a vote beyond their extended families are also declaring their interest. Some declare too early and others too late. Others who have been voted out of office also stand up to declare their candidature. Most of these jokers are found on social media and get a few likes as well as comments, yet they have not been to the grassroots for years, or decades.****POLICE are wondering why a senior officer and several junior officers have been posted to a private ranch in Laikipia. Our mole heard some police officers demanding to know if the new owner is paying for the services. It is said the officers raised concerns about the deployment, but those responsible are yet to respond. Even the President doesn t deploy policemen to protect his private land. Why are they there? an officer asked.