The ostentatious launch of the Jubilee Party reeled in a rich harvest of defectors. At least 40 opposition legislators jumped ship in one day in perhaps the largest-ever political defection event in Kenya. The bulk of the defectors came from Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka s Lower Eastern.They are Rachael Nyamai (Kitui South), Regina Ndambuki (Kilome),Victor Munyaka (Machakos Town), Kisoi Munyao (Mbooni), Joe Mutambu (Mwingi Central), Richard Makenga (Kaiti), John Munuve (Mwingi North), Charles Nyamai (Kitui West), Francis Mwangangi (Yatta), Vincent Musyoka (Mwala) and Itwiku Mbai (Masinga). This is a devastating blow to Kalonzo s political fortunes. He is now facing a massive mutiny in his Ukambani backyard.The day has, however, been a long time coming. Indecision on whether to quit or remain in Cord has fuelled impatience, restiveness and anxiety amongst followers in his backyard. Kalonzo has been in a quandary on whether to remain and enforce an MoU with obstinate and intransigent ODM leader Raila Odinga, or throw in the towel. Best practices instruct him to soldier on, whilst a gut instinct instructs him to shift alliance. The former Vice President is a deeply tormented and conflicted man and this state of inaction is costing him big time.Reports that he planned to defect to Jubilee did not come to pass. Word on the political grapevine indicated that Jubilee had offered Wiper some political goodies in exchange for it dumping Cord.They are the post of National Assembly Speaker, three Principal Secretaries and two Cabinet Secretaries positions. Wiper would also be allocated five ambassadorial positions and a number of parastatal appointments. Jubilee would also fast-track key infrastructure projects, especially dilapidated roads in Ukambani.Recent reports attributed to Kigumo MP Jamleck Kamau that there were talks between Kalonzo and Ford Kenya s Moses Wetang ula to defect to Jubilee are unconfirmed. Jubilee s offers are tantalising and may be difficult to resist under the current prevailing circumstances. The ground is shifting in Ukambani politics and unless the Wiper leader swiftly changes political tack, he is in danger of being politically isolated.Despite putting on a brave face, Kalonzo must be a very worried man. Like a duck in water he is displaying a calm mien while paddling furiously underwater. The cause of his discomfort is none other than the emergence of a rejuvenated and re-energised Deputy President William Ruto, who has trained his eyes and indefatigable energy on his home turf with alarming results.Kalonzo has limited options. He can stubbornly hang on to Cord and watch Jubilee cause tectonic shifts in his backyard, or join it. The latter is more likely as his troops have already preceded him. The prospect of being abandoned and left stranded in a political Siberia is every politician s worst nightmare.It has dawned on Kalonzo that whilst ODM/Cord leaders were busy sitting on the tarmac in Nairobi, blowing whistles, wearing school uniforms in public, engaging in water fights and dancing and laughing at funerals, Jubilee was busy in a sustained campaign in opposition strongholds that has paid off. A harvest of 40 opposition legislators is unprecedented anywhere in the world.Cord has been caught flat-footed and all its leaders are furiously fighting for their political survival with a general election just 10 months away. If Jubilee maintains the status quo for six months, then the ODM/Cord goose will be cooked. It will be politically and practically impossible for them to create an agenda and a platform on which to launch a credible campaign.