Vihiga Senator George Khaniri and Lugari MP Ayub Savula, whose UDF party dissolved to join the Jubilee Party, are weighing their options after their newfound home turned hostile. The two said they will notify the Registrar of Political Parties of their intention to quit JP.The Political Parties Act requires MPs to notify the registrar within 30 days after a merger of their intention to become independent candidates or join other parties.Politicians who have opted to be independent candidates say they do not want to be restricted by rules or to be intimidated by party officials.Khaniri yesterday said many politicians are disgruntled. We have three options - to stay in the new party, join another party or become independent. I am not comfortable in the Jubilee Party since the merger was poorly managed with no agenda for Kenyans, he said. I have notified the registrar of political parties that I don t want anything to do with the newly launched Jubilee Party. I don t like how they conduct their business as well as how they run the country. Khaniri said Jubilee is not popular at the grassroots because of tribalism and graft allegations . This makes it hard to sell the party to voters. Jubilee s days of being in power are numbered due to poor service delivery, he said. We don t move alone as leaders. The electorate take us where we belong and dictate what we do for them. Savula said he will complete his term then move to a different outfit. We have an agreement with Jubilee to work together, but our voters will decide where we are headed to. Meanwhile, we are working on an alliance in Western from which we mustform and control the next government, he said.The MP said Kenyans are bright, and they will analyse parties before supporting them to ensure their interests are well served.Khaniri and Savula s statements come at a time when some officials of the New Ford People, PNU and Tip Tip parties said they did not want to merge.Eleven parties merged to join the Jubilee Party on September 9.