ODM has expressed disappointment on how the Cord co-principals have been building and popularising themselves.Communications Director Philip Etale said on Monday that it was undemocratic for Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetang'ula to demand that ODM party leader Raila Odinga resign from politics and endorse either of them.Etale said on Facebook: "When the right time comes, delegates from the three parties will converge to elect the Cord's presidential candidate."Read: I am the most preferred candidate in 2017, says Raila"For a long time, [Raila] was running up and down across Kenya spreading the gospel of Cord. He wanted a united and stronger Cord. While he did this, other parties within the coalition were busy building themselves," the post read.More on this: Joho 'determined to get Raila 12 million votes' from ODM strongholdsThe post goes on to say: "He has decided to popularise ODM and strengthen the party base. FK and Wiper are too doing the same. That is democracy ... However, asking a competitor to resign from politics and endorse one of his competitors is not DEMOCRACY."This comes barely a day after Wiper leader Kalonzo expressed displeasure at ODM's alleged plan to ditch Cord and take part in the 2017 general elections as a single party.Read: Raila to 'battle fairly' for Cord presidential ticket"Wiper too has what it takes to go in the next elections as a party, he said at a rally in Tononoka grounds on Sunday.Also read: Omar opposed to Cord's joint nomination plan Party chair David Musila said: "This amounts to chest-thumping which we are not happy with. Even as Wiper we have what it takes to explore other options should they decide to go it alone in the next elections. Ford Kenya's Wetang'ula said Raila had already had several failed attempts at the presidency. He said Raila should support a different person to ensure the coalition wins."Raila is our leader and we respect him. He should however act as a kings-maker and ensure Cord wins in the 2017 elections. When we win the elections, he will have a special place in the Cord government, he said.