Sauti Sol are contenders for a couple of awards after landing two nominations in the 6th edition of the MTV Africa Music Awards (MAMAs). The Kenyan AfroPop supergroup will also be performing during the event to be held in Johannesburg this coming Saturday (October 22). Also lighting up the MAMA stage with dazzling live performances will be Nigerian AfroBeat giant Wizkid, Angolan Kizomba icon C4 Pedro and legendary South African House DJ and producer, DJ Maphorisa as they all head to Johannesburg to perform at Fresh from his recent collaboration with Drake, Wizkid is this year s most nominated MAMA artist, with an incredible 6 nominations, including two nods for Song of the Year, plus the prestigious Artist of the Year, Best Male and Personality of the Year. East coast foursome Sauti Sol is not far behind with an amazing 4 nominations including Best Group, Artist of the Year, Song of the Year and Best Collaboration (for Unconditionally Bae featuring Alikiba). C4 Pedro is going head-to-head against the continent s best Portuguese-speaking artists in the Best Lusophone category, where he is pitched against fellow countrymen NGA and Preto Show, alongside Mozambique s Lizha James and Nelson Frietas (Cape Verde). Uhuru alumnus DJ Maphorisa, who has been hitting the headlines recently for his co-production credit on Drake s One Dance , is back in the spotlight for his solo achievements at this year s awards, notching up two nominations, for Song of the Year and Best Collaboration, for Soweto Baby , featuring Wizkid. Wizkid, DJ Maphorisa, C4 Pedro and Sauti Sol join previously announced African performers Diamond, Emtee, Future, Kwesta, Patoranking Alikiba, Babes Wodumo, Cassper Nyovest, Nasty C, Ycee and Yemi Alade for the uplifting telecast. Highlighting the gold standard in contemporary music, creativity and achievement, The MTV Africa Music Awards Johannesburg 2016 promises to be the biggest and best ever, with music lovers partying up a storm at the Ticketpro Dome for this spectacular showcase. The definitive annual celebration of African and international talent and achievement, MAMA 2016 recognises and rewards musicians and achievers who have made the most impact on African music and youth culture over the previous year. The ceremony will feature stunning performances from African and international artists along with the show s signature cross-genre and cross-border collaborations.