Banks and telecommunications companies digitally linked to the National Population Register have found it easier to verify customers details and reap big financially since the launch of the IPRS on March 11 last year.The Integrated Population Registration System has made it easy for institutions to access an individual s entire registration and identification records using a single personal identification number the national ID number.IPRS director George Anyango said the system provides a 360-degree view. This allows digitally linked agencies to authenticate documents by citizens or identify Kenyans by matching their biometric and photographic details with any documents they have.This digital population register has strengthened the concept of Know Your Customer. KYC processes by institutions seek to verify the identities of its clients. The concept has increasingly become a phenomenon that demands customers provide a detailed anti-corruption due diligence information, to verify their probity and integrity. Minus IPRS, banks were paying out cash without a reliable reference point to verify individuals details, Anyango said. He said banks lost Sh5 billion in fraud before taking up the system, but now the figure stands at Sh200 million per year.The system has had a massive impact on economy s financial sector, with online banking gaining a huge traction. Anyango said: The convenience and swift transactions was previously unheard of, in terms of loan advancement. Transactions are now taking place on mobile phones. This is courtesy of the IPRS system making it easy to verify individuals information. In late 2012, the Commercial Bank of Africa and Safaricom launched M-Shwari, a mobile phone-based savings and loan product. According to the Financial Sector Deepening report March 2016, M-Shwari recorded one million customers, with an uptake of Sh24 billion in loans advancement in 2014-15.The Kenya Commercial Bank is grateful to the Interior ministry for the IPRS system. Through this system the bank is able to verify all loan applicants, retail banking director Annastacia Kimtai said.LESS FRAUD AND FORGERIES The KCB MPesa and Mobile Loans has disbursed Sh17.4 billion since its launch in March last year. The bank partnered with Safaricom in MPesa savings and loan product to target customers who wish to borrow short-term loans to cater for emergency financial needs.Kimtai noted that the mobile banking revolution helped the bank disburse Sh12.1 billion in 17 months besides attracting 6.9 million customers. This was in addition to KCB Mobi loan, which disbursed Sh5.2 billion.Cooperative Bank s McoopCash has three million customers, with Sh1.7 billion disbursed in 183,000 loans. And Equity Bank s Equitel with one million customers has had Sh5 billion taken up in loans. We are happy the IPRS system has boosted business and thus prevented fraud and forgeries in matters identity, Anyango said.Anyango said most saccos have also gone on a virtual banking platform and many of the insurance firms have also not been left behind.At the Government Digital Payments Secretariat, KYC has been made easy by the IPRS with a unique citizen identifier. This is what IPRS has provided and is providing this capability for all government services from birth certificate to death certificate and anything in between such as driving, travel, lands, vehicles and travel documents, the secretariat states.To date over two million Kenyans are registered on ecitizen.go.ke courtesy of the IPRS. Mobile phone operators have been using IPRS since the introduction of mandatory registration of SIM cards, to verify customer details collected from offices, shops and dealer networks countrywide.Safaricom corporate affairs director Stephen Chege said they have proactively gone beyond the requirements of the Kenya Information and Communications Act and integrated the IPRS verification as a standard for SIM card registration. As a customer fills out their identification details, we have real-time verification of customer details at the point of purchase during registration, Chege said.While financial institutions and other agencies have found it convenient to use the KYC processes, questions and eyebrows should be raised as to why the electoral commission -IEBC- is not connected to the IPRS. If IEBC were to use the KYC via the IPRS, its voter register will be cleaned real-time of double registrations, voting and dead voters.Currently, the IPRS is obviously at the centre of many transactions, such that its collapse would lead to a standstill in business and service operations.But Anyango says in case of slowdowns or a collapse of the system, there is a Disaster Recovery Site, which provides an alternative and automatic backup. Anyango said so far, the system has recorded 35 million Kenyans, including foreigners, who are less than a million. This means the programme is short of registering 10 million more people. Kenya s population stands at 44 million.Despite the registration milestone, the IPRS department lacks a policy that makes it mandatory for agencies like universities or the Commission for University Education to share secondary data on one s academic background. Many agencies are not ready to share, because they don t see it as a requirement, Anyango said.Internet connectivity has also hindered the coverage rate to record births and deaths real-time and get picked up immediately by the IPRS system.While the infrastructure to support the registration of persons to a single register is still low, Anyango said he plans to get more agencies on top of the 300 to get connected and use the system.Besides connecting agencies, getting more individuals registered would move the country closer to realising a National Population Register Master Database. This is critical to individuals information, ranging from birth to death register, citizenship, ID card, passport, marriage and foreign citizens register.+ Additional InformationIt is now more than one year since the IPRS system was launched. The IPRS department is among other departments (Civil Registration, National Registration Bureau, Immigration) under the Interior inistry.PLANNED FOR TWO DECADESThe IPRS concept has been unimplementable for 21 years, since being proposed in 1989. It was only kick-started in 2010 to provide a comprehensive database for all citizens and enrich national security.Before takeoff, benchmarking was undertaken in countries that have a developed an IPRS system, like Finland, Malaysia, Pakistan, Ukraine and USA. The system s infrastructure cost the government Sh120 million, culminating in trials between 2012 and 2013.The government then asked banks and telecommunication companies to confirm customers ID numbers using the system before registering them.The system is meant to help curb money laundering and financing of terrorism. Its 360 degree view allows digitally linked agencies to authenticate documents by citizens or identify Kenyans by matching their biometric and photographic details with documents in their possession.IPRS is supposed to further have secondary details on one s KRA s tax register, driver licence, National Social Security Fund, education, employment, National Hospital Insurance Fund and the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics. This information will be accessible at the click of a button.While launching the system, President Uhuru Kenyatta said: We need to know how many people we serve, who they are, what their needs and aspirations are. He added that it is important to know about new citizens as soon as they are born or naturalised, those who leave our midst, when and why.Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery said the new system will help security agencies control crime. Nkaissery, under whose ministry the NPRS falls, said the new information system will be useful in all sectors of public and private service.Previously, data on Kenyans and non-Kenyans was contained in manual systems maintained by different institutions. The new system s ultimate target is to realise a National Population Register, or a Master Database, which will not require the government to carry out National Population Census every 10 years. The 2009 national population census cost Sh8.4 billion.