Deputy Chief Justice applicant Lydia Achode yesterday said she would advocate progressive achievement of social rights, such as the right to medical care and housing.Justice Achode said directing the executive to immediately implement universal social benefits would be unreasonable. She said implementation should be progressive. If you say everyone should have a house, how do you implement that? It s only achievable when you give timelines within which the executive can implement that. This can only be achieved progressively, she said during the interview for the DCJ post.Achode said having served in the judiciary as a registrar and a judge, she would have an advantage as DCJ. She said she is well versed with administrative work and has good institutional memory.She has served for 30 years in the judiciary. Achode said she will fight corruption in the judiciary and ensure Kenyans get easy access to justice. She talked about her experience with cartels in the judiciary when she was a registrar. Justice Achode said she received death threats when she investigated theft of money at the judiciary.She said two main things she wants to be remembered for are dispensing justice efficiently and making courts accessible to the common man.Asked about the backlog of cases at the commercial courts, Achode said she would recommend hiring of commissioners of assize to specifically deal with the cases.She said she will do a brand audit of the judiciary and ensure the institution communicates efffectively with its clients, the public, on what it has done. She wants to know what exactly are the concerns of Kenyans and address them.Achode said the judiciary lacks proper communication strategy, which in some instances has created the wrong impression that Kenyans are concerned about corruption in the institution when in reality they are perturbed by delay in delivery of justice.She said judges should determine political questions, but only after other avenues for dispute resolution are exhausted. The courts should be the last resort, she said.Wants abortion legal in some casesAlso interviewed for the DCJ job was lawyer Joyce Majiwa who supports legalisation of abortion under special circumstances.Majiwa, a senior counsel, told the Judicial Service Commission that abortion should be allowed in the constitution when the life of mother is in danger. The issue was debated at length during the drafting of the new Constitution. She said abortion should not be criminalised in all instances. Abortion is important... It can be procured if the life of the mother is in danger so we should not criminalise it in all instances, she told the panel.She also proposed extension of time to determine presidential elections petitions from the current 14 days to 30 days.Majiwa told the JSC panel that parties must be given enough time to prepare, to demonstrate pursuit of justice. I sympathise with former CJ Willy Mutunga who handled the presidential petition in 2013 because the time frame was limited, she said.The lawyer, however, praised Mutunga s efforts in developing judiciary infrastructure and cleaning up its image.She said she will ensure the judiciary is people-centered. Majiwa said the electoral commission should make the elections process transparent.Leaders in the opposition and the public have accused the IEBC of colluding to rig elections and lacking the capacity to handle the process. The commission has denied the allegations. The lawyer is the chairperson of the Institute of Education and Democracy.The two are among the 16 candidates seeking the position of DCJ. The seat became vacant after Kalpana Rawal retired in June. Rawal was forced to retire after she reached 70. The JSC will interview Justice Martha Koome and Pamela Tutui this morning for the same position.