Germany Vs Czech Republic, today 9:45pmMy Prediction: Germany....2 Czech Republic....1It s a Fifa World Cup qualifying weekend and there are some interesting fixtures lined up for us. This is one game I am definitely looking forward to. Germany are the world champions but fell short of their world dominance at Euro 2016; being knocked out by hosts France in the semi-finals. But they are still a force to reckon with and manager Joachim Leow has a host of world class players at his disposal. In post Euros, they ve beaten Finland and Norway convincingly; though the two aren t exactly footballing nations. Leow will miss the services of the unfit Mario Gomez up-front but still has the likes of Thomas Mueller and Mario Gotze to call upon. What I remember clearly about Germany during Brazil 2014 was that the team wasn t run by superstars but rather a solid German team. But Czech do have my favourite shot stopper between the sticks; the one and only Petr Cech! Unfortunately, they have only won one of their last five matches; a 3-0 victory over Armenia. Their current Fifa ranking is 33 against Germany s third position. This sounds a little imbalanced but this is a World Cup qualifier and anything can happen. But with the Germans at home, it s going to be a mountain for the Czech to climb and I don t think they can do it! Poland Vs Denmark, Today 9:45pm, My Prediction: Poland...3 Denmark...1Poland were the surprise package at Euro 2016 winning all their group games; beating Switzerland in the round of 16 and only being knocked out of the quarter-finals by eventual winners Portugal; and even that needed penalties to see manager Adam Nawalka s team go home. Robert Lewandowski is a gem of a striker while all those other players whose names I can t spell or pronounce stepped up to the plate. Unfortunately they drew 2-2 against Kazakhstan last month but are still ranked a very respectable 17th in the world. They face Denmark who are currently ranked 46 and are having a good run. They ve won their last three matches against Bulgaria, Liechtenstein and Armenia but Poland will be tougher opposition. Former Arsenal hit-man Nicklas Bendtner is in fine form, scoring almost immediately for his new club Nottingham Forest. But it will be a tall order to try and get him and his squad to win this. Team Poland all the way. England Vs Malta, Today 7pm,My Prediction: England....4 Malta...0I am only touching on this game because of the drama that England have gone through with the greedy Sam Allardyce. Gareth Southgate is in charge temporarily and it s no surprise that he doesn t want the job full time; because it s such a high profile engagement. He has chosen to stick with experience which is the safe way to go when time isn t on your side. He retains Wayne Rooney as captain which is smart and has the inform Theo Walcott to help lead the attack. And attack is where he has no problems even though Harry Kane is out injured. He has Daniel Sturridge, Jamie Vardy (who may not be in top form for his club but can score on a good day) not to mention youngsters Delle Ali and Marcus Rashford. There are host of other stars in midfield and behind and Malta, who are ranked 176th in the world actually stands no chance. Pole sana to them.