Ugandan actor featured in Disney movie, Queen of Katwe has come out guns blazing to respond to journalist Timothy Kalyegira who has called the film an "embarrassment".Catch Up With The Rest Of Us On What Kalyegira said ---&gt; Ugandan media personality brands Lupita's movie an "embarrassment"Actor Philip Luswata has called Kalyegira "such a disappointment", an "idiot" and a "fool" for his opinion. apart from Philip, other Ugandan movie buffs disagreed with Kalyegira. They flooded his Facebook page with posts on why they disagree with him.Kalyegira Still Defended His Opinion ---&gt; Media personality defends his post that branded Lupita's movie an "embarrassment"He made the comments in a filmmakers Whatsapp group and asked that it be made known to Kalyegira that he no longer has respect for the joker . This gentleman must be a genius. If 20 minutes is enough for him to be so trashy about a film, there is something about him that is different. I must however point out this How would you expect a film made in Uganda, about Ugandans, with majority Ugandan actors not to take advantage of Ugandan English (I always had respect for this joker) technically, what is Ugandan acting? Luswata wondered referring to Kalyegira s criticism of Ugandan English . How do you expect Ugandan actors to act like Americans?! Ugandans act like Ugandans! The very reason they were cast! So that they can be Ugandan! Does this gentleman even know how much ADR was done to help SA actors to sound like Ugandans! Luswata also attacked Kalyegira who admitted that he followed a European woman out of the movie barely 20 minutes after screening. The idiot was even happy to brainlessly follow a European woman, disrespectfully, out of the cinema! What sort of etiquette is this? Fellow couldn t even think for self. He had to follow a woman who was disappointed in seeing no white face in the movie. Maybe she was even going to the toilet and he followed! He added, Oyo Kalyegira mulalu (mad). The two main Hollywood leads struggled like hell to sound Ugandan, and this idiot doesn t even recognize this, choosing to attack the locals that were simply themselves. Kalyegira musilu (is a fool). Such a disappointment. 