Britain will be made to "pay" for leaving the EU, Francois Hollande has warned.The French president said Britain should be punished for Brexit as a warning to other nations.And another French minister said one target will be the City of London s status as the world s euro-dealer.But last night the French head of the London Stock Exchange warned that any reprisals against the City would damage EU economies more.Xavier Rolet, who established London as the leading player in the clearing market, said the City is a money pump for all of Europe, allowing businesses across the EU to raise capital in an efficient and stable manner ."People talk about casually moving euro-clearing back to Paris... but do this and you lose efficiencies and push up customer costs," he said."Only one other financial centre in the world could come close to centrally clearing all these currencies as efficiently New York."This is not a zero-sum game. If London loses business, the European economy suffers and the business will move to New York anyway."Hollande is the latest EU leader to toughen his rhetoric on Brexit. He said: "The UK wants to leave but pay nothing. That is not possible. Britain has decided to go for a Brexit, in fact I believe a hard Brexit. We need to be firm. If not, we would jeopardise the fundamental principles of the EU."French finance minister Michel Sapin made a more direct threat."There will be consequences (to Brexit)," he said. One thing is sure no one in the eurozone will accept that the main clearing place will be outside the European Union. From that point of view Paris is extremely well placed. European Commission chief Jean-Claude Juncker piled on more pressure yesterday by saying it will be impossible for the UK to have free access to the EU single market unless it accepts free movement of people."On this point we need to be intransigent," he declared.German Chancellor Angela Merkel issued the same message on Thursday, warning that the EU could unravel if it compromised on free movement.But yesterday it emerged that Germany itself now wants draconian new restrictions on out-of-work benefits for migrants from other EU nations.Merkel s cabinet is set to agree a bill withholding unemployment and welfare benefits for five years. Jobless migrants would need enough cash to support themselves without state aid.In January this year 440,000 people from other EU countries were living in Germany and claiming benefits.