National Super League runaway leaders Nzoia United face former Kenya Premier League side KCB tomorrow as the league enters round 28.The match between Nzoia and sixth placed KCB will be played at Camp Toyoyo.Nakumatt hosts Nairobi Stima tomorrow at Kasarani while third-placed Kariobangi Sharks travel to Mumias to take on fifth placed Vihiga United as the race for promotion to the Kenya Premier League intensifies. Fourth-placed Kericho Zoo travel to Nairobi to battle Wazito FC.Kenya Police play Talanta at Afraha Stadium in Nakuru while Bidco hosts Ligi Ndogo in Thika. Agro Chemicals hosts Palos at Furaha grounds in a Nyanza region derby.Troubled Shabana FC hosts Oserian at Kericho Green Stadium.Meanwhile, the heightened race for promotion into the top flight league is getting interesting with six national super League sides Nzoia United, Nakumatt, Kariobangi Sharks, Zoo Kericho, Vihiga United and KCB jostling for the four available places to join top flight league.After the weekend round of fixtures, which left 11 matches to play for most teams in the 20-team second division, Nzoia s place in next season Premier League looks assured as they hold onto top spot with 67 points following their 2-1 victory over Moyas.Masita Masuta and Luke Namanda accounted for the goals that ensured Bernard Mwalala s side retained their unbelievable unbeaten status after 27 league matches.Of the contenders for promotion, Nakumatt lost ground as they were held to a 1-1 draw by Nakuru All Stars on Sunday. John mwangi had put Nakumatt ahead inside the opening quarter of an hour but Michael Osundwa struck back ten minutes later to deny the supermarket giants all three points they needed to hang onto the coattails of the league leaders.From 27 matches, Nakumatt have 56 points. That allowed Sharks to reel in the second-placed team following their 3-0 triumph over Modern Coast United that extended coach William Muluya s unbeaten run in the league since he took charge of the side. Ibrahim Kitawi s double followed by an effort from John Macharia took Sharks, who have played a game less, to within three points off Nakumatt. Zoo Kericho dropped to fourth inspite of their 1-0 home win over fellow promotion contender Vihiga. Nicholas Kipkirui struck the lone goal that saw Zoo take level on points with Sharks with Vihiga three points further back.KCB look for a straight return to the top flight league could not have hoped for a better result than their 1-0 win away at tricky Palos that increased their points to 47 in sixth place. Brian Yator scored the solitary goal that kept the bankers in the hunt for a swift return among the elite.Recently, FKF have made it clear that four teams will be promoted to the Premier League with two being relegated, an issues that will be top on the agenda when the federation meet on Saturday at the Kenya School of Monetary Studies for their Annual General Meeting. An 18-team top flight league was one of the corner stones of FKF President Nick Mwendwa s campaign for the top federation seat earlier this year.