The power elite are clashing over the bungled International Criminal Court cases, as victims of political intrigues mourn the abortion of justice. What should have been a time of reflection is a moment of hubris for the power elite.Life is not fair perhaps it was not intended to be. Instead of learning from the miscarriage of justice in humility, our leaders are setting the country on a renewed hate trajectory. Worse, this is happening a few months to another general election year.Instead of working for free and fair elections next year, the country is stuck with a discredited electoral commission, one whose leadership exhibited astounding bias during the presidential election petition at the Supreme Court in 2013.The immediate trigger of the 2007-08 post-election violence was a bungled presidential election. The power elite are hell-bent on Season Two of post-election mayhem, instead of addressing contentious issues around the 2017 general election. Horrendous crimes were committed in sovereign Kenya in the dying days of December 2007. The debauchery intensified in January, falling in scale and scope through to February 28, 2008. That was the day a ceasefire was declared, thanks to foreign intervention in a country that often dangles territorial sovereignty to spite the West. There were murders, rapes, forced circumcision, and arson, among other heinous offences against good order. After 60 days of power-instigated violence, about 1,200, lay dead. About 700 people were dispossessed. Thousands were injured. Hundreds of thousands of businesses were destroyed and premises were vandalised. Many struggling citizens were robbed of livelihoods. The power elite had forced war on a country that until then was supposed to be an island of peace in a turbulent sea . Mwai Kibaki entered the annals of history as the president who forced the country into a war that should have been avoided.The scars of the mayhem are still raw. Many families are still grieving. Widows, widowers, and orphans from the post-election violence give testimonies of political crimes that should have been avoided. There are people who carry permanent scars from this season of madness. Benard Orinda Ndege lost 11 members of his family in Naivasha during revenge attacks that ran through January 2008. The man is struggling to reconstruct his life as a fisherman on Lake Victoria.Meanwhile, the economy has dumped billions of shillings in trying to clean up the mess of Kibaki s misrule. It was era that rekindled ethnic hostilities instead of nurturing the unity that saw Kibaki succeed Daniel Moi after failed attempts in the 1992 and 1997 presidential elections.Kenyans know the victims of these crimes, but the second-tier perpetrators are yet to be nailed, charged, convicted or acquitted. The Director of Public Prosecutions is hogging many of these files. Serious crimes remain unpunished in a sovereign country that boasts functional intelligence, reportedly competent investigating and prosecution agencies, and a reforming judiciary. This is a sad commentary on national commitment to justice and the rule of law. The ICC failed to deliver justice due to bungled investigations, and interferences with witnesses. The State has also betrayed the citizenry by failing to deliver justice to victims of political insanity.