The driver of a Rongai matatu that caused the death of five passengers on Lang ata Road 10 days ago yesterday was charged with causing death by dangerous driving. Francis Kinyanjui appeared before Kibera principal magistrate Barbara Ojoo.He denied all the 10 counts, including five charges of causing death by dangerous driving. Kinyanjui is being charged with driving dangerously without care and consideration of other road users and causing the death of five passengers on September 25.He was also charged with two other counts of careless driving. Kinyanjui was further charged with driving a motor vehicle without a driving licence and an alternative charge of failing to carry his licence.He also denied driving an unroadworthy vehicle and failing to report an accident, which he had caused at the nearest police station.Kinyanjui pleaded with the court to release him on bond, but State Counsel Annette Wangia opposed his release. She said he was likely to flee. Wangia said the suspect went into hiding and only resurfaced after eight days.She said if Kinyanjui is released, his safety might be at risk considering the accident has attracted a lot of uproar. She said there have been a lot of protests after the accident. It is for his safety to remain behind bars, Wangia said. She said some of the victims are still hospitalised.Kinyanjui, however, said he ran away from the scene to avoid being harmed by a mob. The case will be mentioned this morning. If found guilty, Kinyanjui is likely to spend the rest of his life in prison.Last week, the NTSA said the minibus was operating without licence.NTSA director general Francis Mejja yesterday said the vehicle KCG 748M was operating under the Ongataline Sacco, despite withdrawal of its Road Service Licence by the agency.This came as students from the Multimedia University demonstrated a classmate was killed in the accident. The peaceful protests turned chaotic and police fired live bullets. Mejja said the NTSA has resolved to deregister the sacco.He said the sacco s crew has become notorious and has not complied with the PSV rules, leading to multiple fatal accidents. Mejja said the authority had engaged the sacco officials on several occasions since March, but they failed to control their drivers. The decision to deregister the company was arrived at following a chronology of engagements between the authority and the company, he said.