The chips have fallen. After bloody battles on the streets, in numerous Counties, deaths and injuries occasioned by police officers, or on police officers, have been documented. The dice has been cast. Fortunately or unfortunately, the entire leadership of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) is finally going home. Public protests and gatherings must mean something in democracies. Eventually, after a hiatus of silence within former President Kibaki regime, these means of expression have come back to be the political language. And the costs and consequences have been dire. The right to life, integrity and security of the person, right to express oneself, and political rights to assemble, demonstrate or to associate cannot be adequately costed or compensated, only rights to properties can be quantified. And these costs mean nothing much to the mainstream human rights discourse since, in most cases, insurance pays them off anyway. Policing and the Electoral CalendarSubsequently, both the National Assembly and the Senate, unanimously passed the Joint Select Committee Report in both Houses. They too have passed subsequent legislation necessary to give impetus to reform towards the upcoming August 2017 General Elections. But within the envisaged reforms, and after numerous contributions, very little has been documented on the role of policing, in the electoral calendar, which is to be reformed through various laws, policies, institutional reconstruction, and administrative measures. Democratic policing is a necessary condition for electoral cycles, including countries in transition and those establishing democracies. However, this agenda has not received the attention it deserves in the voluminous report, with various chapters and annexes of the so-called Joint Committee Report. Foundation: Secure the Vote and VoterArticle 1 of the Constitution of Kenya provides that sovereignty, and power itself in Kenya, belongs to the people. They are free to exercise it directly such as when voting, or indirectly through elected persons, and these mean any of the six ballots that will be cast in 2017 General Elections. Thus, unless Kenyans enjoy Article 29 of the same Constitution, where they are secure and have their integrity guaranteed, usually by security agencies such as the police, then it will be impossible to secure the vote, and also the voter. More so, Kenyans should be free to also exercise other human rights and fundamental freedoms, which in democracies are guarantees to free, fair, credible and genuine elections. These rights include the right to citizenship documents; right to assemble; right to picket or demonstrate; the right to seek office; to right to vote; the right to associate in any political grouping or party of their preference, and also many other rights that pertain to the electoral calendar. Below is a general examination of how these rights are applicable in the electoral calendar and why reforms in how the elections will be policed, remains a cardinal aspect, which must find its way on the reform table as Kenyans seek to reform the electoral system and laws. Role of Police in Securing RightsThe rights guaranteed in the Constitution are NOT granted by the State or Government. At least, the Joint Committee Report, devoted several pages discussing international legal instruments, such as declarations, covenants, conventions, principles, and such other instruments. These instruments, from the international to the African continental level and also the East African Community obligate Kenya as a signatory of, or has ratified, these laws, which fall under the Constitution as expressed in Article 2(6). The right to vote, cannot be exercised if some other rights are not guaranteed. For example, the right to access citizenship documents, particularly the National Identity Card (ID), which remains a pipe dream for many young and marginalized groups of people. One has only to read many publications by civil society on this matter, and most recently, the report by a State Agency the Commission for Administrative Justice (CAJ) to actually understand that without IDs, then right to vote is compromised. Police are involved fully in these processes for issuance of abstracts on lost IDs and their efficiency in this or otherwise, determines whether a voter in Todo Nyang Ward, in Turkana County, will ever vote in 2017. Basic Rights Associated with PoliticsThe right to associate, whether in private rooms, in the streets, or in any other forum, depends on whether police provide a conducive environment for people to exercise their choices, express themselves freely, and also assemble and present petitions to either candidates or political parties. Those that infringe on these rights must of course be arrested and arraigned in courts by police. The right to vie for office and express oneself, and particularly for women candidates and Kenyans who are physically-challenged without fear of harassment, threat and intimidation, including sometimes death, from hired goons is at risk. Police must therefore, become professional and do their job using prior intelligence, and hence detect and deter crime not respond when it happens. The right to demonstrate for or against a political cause, campaign or event, is as serious as the right to life. However, when one looks at the documented evidence on how police handled demonstrators between May and June 2016, in the Counties of Migori, Kisumu, Siaya, Nairobi and Nakuru among others, their actions of commission or omission were questionable. Indeed, the actions bordered more on their unprofessionalism, where the Constitution in Article 244, provides that police should not act in a partisan manner, when engaging in public order management, which was violated. Policing Beyond Political OpinionPolicing must go beyond tribe, race, religion, political opinion since the Constitution is quite clear on this in Article 27. Police cannot afford to directly or indirectly discriminate any person on any of the protected grounds listed there, but they did so above. Their lack of adherence therefore to constitutional standards on human rights and democratic freedoms was questioned by among others, the Independent Policing Oversight Authority. Some will be criminally prosecuted for this, whilst many others will be dealt with through administrative or disciplinary measures: that is a guarantee. As Kenyans head towards the 2017 General Elections, which is about 11 or so months to go, police must be held responsible for how they conduct themselves during political rallies, campaign meetings, political party conventions, and so on. This reform should not be an afterthought, but must be put squarely onto the hands of the Inspector-General of Police. Litmus TestKenya is facing an unprecedented political campaign towards 2017, and a rough one, based mainly on two rival outfits. The writing is already on the wall, as early as this September 2016. The real litmus test is the following: police must ensure the voters go to vote and to ensure no person is dis-enfranchised; police must guarantee how voters freedom of movement is exercised; how voters are not harassed or intimidated or even forcefully asked to sell their voters cards; and all manner of political shenanigans that go with bribery of voters. They are supposed to maintain law and order. Finally, the police also must secure the ballot papers and boxes when being delivered; when votes are being cast; when they are counted; when they are tallied; when they are announced; and when ballot boxes and other electoral material are being brought to national headquarters of the future IEBC. This must be the future of policing Kenyans want to see: not those baton-wielding, cannon-spraying, gun-cocking, trigger-happy, partisan-painted and political-opinionated police. The onus is with the Inspector-General of the Police, whose command and control, not to mention independence of office and decision-making, are all guaranteed in Article 245 of the Constitution of Kenya. Will Joseph Kipchirchir Boinett rise to, or fall in, the occasion of 2017 General Elections? Your guess is as good as mine. END