National volleyball men s league side Kenya Ports Authority are on their guard to grasp a play-offs berth during the season s last circuit tomorrow in Eldama Ravine, Baringo County.KPA are targeting to shoot down the Kenya Defence Forces ambitions to qualify for the play-offs when they meet tomorrow in their last clash of the season. Whereas the military side has vowed to employ all their ordinances to put the porters down, KPA are plotting to use all far-out methods against KDF s Ulinzi to secure a place in the playoffs.The Playoffs are set for November 25-27 at KPA Makande Hall, Mombasa. The dockers are also scheduled to face reigning champions and Forest Rangers.A KPA win of any nature (3-0, 3-1 or 3-2) against the Nyeri-based Ulinzi will gift the Mombasa-based line-up a play-offs position, meaning the soldiers will miss the show for the first time in over a decade. On the other hand, an Ulinzi win will place the two squads on a tie until they play their other fixtures of the day.Ulinzi are set to also play seventh-placed Bungoma County and Prisons Kenya, while KPA face league leaders GSU later in the day. Former Kenya international and beach volleyball player Bernard Musumba, who was part of the GSU outfit that won the 2015 title will face his former employer when KPA meet the reigning champions.]Champions General Service Unit, Nairobi Water and Prison Kenya have already qualified for the league s ultimate face-off and their Ravine outing will be a bald rite. GSU lead the league unbeaten with 30 points, Nairobi Water are second on the log with 29 as former holders Prisons Kenya got 25.Prisons Kenya will also have to tighten their nuts in all at least one of their three fixtures to sail in playoffs. The side coached by Gideon Chenje are slated to play Ulinzi, GSU and Administration Police in Ravine and will miss the services of the towering left attacker Michael Chemos and middle blocker, who has been ailing since July.Meanwhile in the women s league, regulars champions Pipeline and former holders Prisons have already booked their play-off places. Third placed Nairobi Water will be assured of a playoffs position should they win against Bungoma County. For KCB to reserve the remaining slot, they must win against Mt. Kenya University.Former champions Prisons Kenya lead the six-team unbeaten followed by Pipeline (18), Nairobi Water (13) and KCB (9) respectively as Bungoma County (8) and Mt. Kenya University (0) are placed in positions five and six.Men s fixtures: GSU vs Kenya Prisons, KPA vs KDF, Coop Bank vs Nairobi Prisons, Bungoma vs MKU, Prisons Mombasa vs Western Prisons, Mombasa Prisons vs AP Kenya, KDF vs Bungoma, GSU vs KPA, KDF vs Kenya Prisons, Bungoma County vs Nairobi Water, Nairobi Prisons vs Western Prisons, Kenya Prisons vs AP Kenya, KPA vs Forest Rangers, Bungoma vs AP Kenya, Coop Bank vs Forest Rangers.Women s fixture: Kenya Pipeline vs Kenya Prisons, Nairobi Water vs Bungoma, KCB vs MKU, Kenya Pipeline vs KCB, Prisons Kenya vs Nairobi Water, Kenya Prisons vs Bungoma, Kenya Pipeline vs Bungoma.