Every cloud has a silver lining and political clouds more than any other.And as the campaigns for the 2017 elections begin in earnest, this much is already clear: That while the Jubilee Party dealt the opposition parties a terrible blow by poaching all those opposition MPs who crossed over at the grand launch two weeks ago, it also provided its rivals the perfect weapon to use against these rebel MPs .By this I mean that the opportunity now exists for the opposition MPs to accuse their former comrades who had walked over to the government team of having been bought .Just how potent an accusation this can be was made clear to me back in the 1990s, when an MP who was not very much liked by the president of the day faced an onslaught from a much younger and highly organised opponent.It seemed that the newcomer was all set to send the old guy into retirement, when the veteran stood up at one of his poorly attended political rallies [said something] along these lines: I know very well that I am going to lose. That does not trouble me. I know you have all sold your votes to my rival. That is not a problem the votes are yours to sell. I only wish that you had sold them for the right amount. For I know very well how much [ the political establishment ] gave my rival to distribute in this constituency. And from what I have seen, he has only distributed a small part of it and kept the bulk for himself. I say the political establishment , merely to deflect any potential lawsuit. The veteran politician actually specified who had given his rival this money. And if you have some knowledge of a certain very powerful - and very litigious - politician of the President Daniel Moi era, who was awarded historic sums in damages for libel, then you know who I mean.Well, it is said that hell hath no fury like a woman scorned . But I would say that any fury a woman scorned might feel is but a pale shadow of that which the average Kenyan voter feels when he learns that a parliamentary candidate has eaten in our name and then neglected to share the spoils of his new political allegiance.The voters will react exactly as if someone took money out of their pockets. And suddenly the narrative of the election is not about who has the capacity to bring development . Rather there is sudden reversal of the political tide, arising from a deep-seated need to punish the thief who dared eat in our name and yet expects the voters to accept his empty promises of development .Something of that kind could easily play out in the current scenario.For after that expensive and elaborate party launch; after the endless convoys of JP-branded SUVs; after the very loud demands of the delegates that they be paid their dues, leaving no doubt that these delegates travelled to Nairobi on an explicit promise that they would be lavishly remunerated for their role in the exercise; it is easy to persuade the average voter in the opposition zones that their leaders who crossed over were rewarded with unimaginable sums.And if these average voters have their minds firmly locked on this narrative of leaders who ate in our name ; if this kind of psychology still applies in rural Kenya where the majority of voters are to be found; then this is what I predict:Given that the opposition party leaders are demanding that those who deserted their parties seek reelection under their new political allegiance, once these demands heat up, there can be only one outcome.More and more of those who proudly walked away from their sponsoring parties in the opposition to pledge allegiance to Jubilee are going to have to eat their words.For to run for elective office in an environment where a good number of voters believe that you have stolen our share of the money you received from your new associates is political suicide, plain and simple.