Farming in Africa is not easy or inevitable. Significant investment and innovation are necessary More than half a century of research and development work in Africa has failed to produce the sufficient productivity gains necessary to achieve food and nutritional security. FAO estimates that more than 220 million Africans are undernourished.The typical reaction to statistics of starving or undernourished Africans is outrage. News of hungry Africans in southern Africa and Ethiopia invigorates frustration among many Africans. Many believe that the continent is endowed with boundless land and water resources to produce sufficient food for all Africans. This is a myth.It is estimated that 55 per cent of Africa s land is unsuitable for any kind of agriculture except nomadic pastoralism. Only 29 per cent of Africa s soils are of medium to high potential and support nearly half of the continent s one billion population. Moreover, Africa s soils are highly weathered and often require huge additions of mineral fertiliser. But fertiliser use in Africa is the lowest in the world. It is estimated that, on average, African farmers apply about 10kg of fertiliser per hectare of arable land compared to 117kg per hectare applied by farmers in North America.Africa s most arable land is densely populated, with small land holdings, making it unsuitable for mechanisation. Africa has the lowest density of surface water compared to any continental land mass. Africa also lacks the large alluvial flood plains in large river deltas which made the Asian Green Revolution very easy. The dizzying variety of agro-ecologies makes it difficult to promote high yielding monocultures such as rice and wheat. Recent estimates show that less than 30 per cent of Africa s agricultural land is planted with improved seeds, mostly maize. Traditional African food crops such as millet, cassava, sorghum and yams on which a majority of Africans depend are unimproved by scientific breeding.Small-scale farmers who don t have access to appropriate mechanisation, extension services, modern inputs, irrigation and financial services, produce a large proportion of sub-Saharan Africa s food. The typical African small-scale farmer is a woman. She provides 60-80 per cent of farm labour, including tending livestock and raising children, in addition to fetching water and firewood.Agricultural production is not merely managing the natural resources such as soil, water and nutrients. Agriculture is also strongly controlled by the socio-economic and political milieu. Some of Africa s medium and high potential areas are not well served with prerequisite services, especially water and sanitation, healthcare, schools, markets, financial services and roads. It is not surprising that 80 per cent of Africa s poorest are farmers. Africa s farmers labour in isolation in their remote villages, unconnected to advances in crop and animal production. In 2011, Africa invested just 0.5 per cent of agricultural output in agricultural research and development, way below the recommended one per cent set by Nepad and the United Nations.Farming in Africa is not easy or inevitable. Significant investment and innovation will be necessary to modernise farming, respond to natural resource degradation and the climate crisis, tap into a youthful population and leverage urbanisation and the rise of supermarkets.