Two pupils at Prince Charles s old boarding school have been expelled for having sex on a music teacher s desk.The scandal only emerged after a three-year campaign by the 16-year-old girl s mother to sue Gordonstoun.She took the 36,000-a-year school to a tribunal, claiming disability discrimination on the grounds that her daughter had attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).But the Additional Support Needs Tribunal for Scotland said the girl was not disabled.It accepted that she had ADHD, but said that did not lead her to have sex, and that such activities deserved expulsion from boarding school.So the mother took the case to court. Only now, three years on, has it ended with a judge ruling in the school s favour.The girl had lost her virginity a year earlier to another Gordonstoun boy, and had a relationship with a third.Prince Charles nicknamed the school, in Moray, northern Scotland as Colditz in kilts for its tough regime of cold showers and open windows in the dorms in winter.Pupils are expected to help out the local fire brigade and coastguard.The mother claimed in court that her daughter known only as M was barely able to cross the road in safety and suffered from "impulsivity".But teachers said M was sufficiently capable to have been sailing at sea. M said other girls were excited for her when she planned to have sex on the music desk, and congratulated her afterwards.The girl was forced to leave the school after the incident in March 2013.In her judgment at the Scottish Court of Session, judge Lady Smith said: "During the evening M had sexual intercourse with a male student on a teacher s desk. Their meeting was planned. Emails dating back over more than a year disclosed sexually explicit exchanges, and there were references to prior sexual contact having occurred."In a state of undress, they were discovered by a member of staff. Both were suspended immediately. Two days later, principal Simon Reid decided to expel both pupils, and wrote to M s mother. "He invited her to withdraw M to avoid there being an expulsion on her record," said the judge.M s mother withdrew her daughter, and pupils were told why she and the boy had left.Gordonstoun s relationships policy states: If students are found having, or having had, sexual intercourse, they are likely to be expelled. The court heard it was not the first time that M had sex with a fellow pupil as the girl s mother herself had told deputy principal Diana Monteith a few months earlier.The judge said: "She told the deputy principal M had lost her virginity to a boy at Easter 2012, when she was at his home. She was concerned that he was making life difficult for M at school. She did not suggest ADHD had played any part in M s sexual activity at that time."M s ADHD disability came to light when her mother demanded that Gordonstoun apologise for having discriminated against M, and train all staff to ensure no similar incident occurs in future .She claimed her daughter needed to be supervised while washing and going to the toilet, and was on the Pill because she would be "unable to cope with menstruation".M was in danger of starting a fire every time she cooked and could not be trusted to cross the road alone, she claimed.In a written statement, M said she had sex on the music room desk because she was confused, young and stupid . She confirmed that she and the boy had agreed to meet, and said medication for ADHD made my mood whacko .The court s judgment said: "She was unhappy and the relationship made her feel better and more confident."The judge rejected the mother s appeal, noting that "M went about her normal day to day activities in an entirely normal fashion".Monteith said: "M got to lessons, and went for five days on an ocean going yacht. If she couldn t cross the road it would be worrying as between her House and school she would have to cross the road. She would go into town. There was never any concern."