Holders KCB face hosts Resolution Impala Saracens in mouth watering Impala floodlit final today at the Impala club.It will be a repeat of last year's final where the bankers came from behind to edge the Sarries 26-14 in topsy turvy match.Impala have made two changes for the final with Kelvin Karani coming at hooker replacing Edgar Obino who moves to loosehead prop with Kenya Sevens international Sammy Oliech has recovered from a hamstring strain to start at at fullback.'Dennis Karani switches to tighthead prop Kenya international lock Eric Kerre also comes to the bench to replace Harritone Munai who has university exams.Impala director of Rugby Fred Ollows expected a tough game against the bankers Every match is different and finals tend to be won by the hungrier team on the day. Our team is in a different place mentally from then and it will likely show Saturday" added OllowsOllows said thy will a high tempo game to tire the big KCB forwards We want t o play the game at pace if we can do that and and execute well than we have good chance of winning he added . Impala last won the floodlight tournament in 2010 . They beat rivals and neighbours Quins 13-10 in the last weekend semifinal win.On their part the bankers play will revolve their forwards led by Kenya sevens skipper Andrew Amonde in the backrow and captain of the day Kenya 15s fullback Darwin Mukidza who has deadly accuracy with the kicking boot should Impala give away penalties in his zone . Mukidza expects a competitive contest We want to win the trophy for the third year running Impala are good side with very good backs and so we will play to our strengths and get the win added MukidzaKCB edged Nakuru 28-26 in high scoring semifinal showdown last weekend with Mukidza slotting home three penalties and two conversions in the win. The match will kickoff at 7pm.Strathmore face Homeboyz in the plate final at 5:10pm with Menengai Oilers facing Blak Blad II in th University final at 3pm . The schools final will pitt Laiser Hill and Ofafa Jericho at 1:30pmImpala lineup 1Edgar Obino, 2Kelvins Karani, 3Dennis Karani, 4Davis Makori,5 Rainer Omondi, 6Joel Omer(c), 7Tyson Okoth, 8Duncan Ekasi, 9Samson Onsomu, 10Nato Simiyu, 11Ian Minjire,12 David Dinda, 13Anthony Nyandigisi,14. Quinto Ongo, 15Samuel OliechReplacementsDaniel Ndome, Neville Omondi, Anthony Orege, Eric Kerre, Erick Kopondo, Mohammed Omollo, David Moenga, George Okowa KCB 1. Oscar Simiyu, 2. Peter Karia, 3. George Gichure, 4. Oliver Mang eni, 5. Francis Mwita, 6. Andrew Amonde, 7. Davis Chenge, 8. Rocky Aguko 9. Felix Wanjala 10 Billy Isabwa 11 Jacob Ojee 12 StaffordAbeka 13 Collins Nato 14 Edwin Salamba 15 Darwin MukidzaReplacements 16. George Asin, 17.Nelson Nyandat, 18.Calvine Sule, 19. Nesta Okotch, 20. Felix Ojow, 21. Marlin Mukolwe, 22. Steve Oyaya, 23. Collins Wanjala