A young girl, Vaati Mulwa, confidently takes to the front of her classroom and guides fellow learners in an English language pronunciation assignment. She points at animals on the blackboard using a stick, and the rest of the class shouts their names in a chorus after her.This scenario unfolded recently at a modernised Early Childhood Development Education centre at Yikisemei Primary School in Makueni county. All this happened as the class teacher, Rosemary Ndivo stood back and as visitors marvelled at the youngster s brilliance.The scene epitomises the benefits young ECDE leaders have reaped from a project to transform ECDE centres. By the end of last year, the county had invested up to Sh140 million in 56 ECDE centres that cater for 48,000 young learners. The typical learning environment, where ECDE learners sat on the floor, under tree shade or makeshift classrooms, is being phased out.The homey and friendly environment that has seen modern infrastructure and facilities introduced in ECDE centres is producing sharp, witty and confident learners. Besides the beautiful classrooms, the Makueni government has also provided slides, swings and play kits for the kids. Before the county intervened, we had less than 10 children in the ECDE class, Yikisemei headteacher Daniel Nzioki said. But the number of learners has since swelled to more than 100. He said a dilapidated mud-walled and grass-thatched structure that was in the past used as a classroom still stands in the compound as a stark reminder of where the ECDE centre has mutated from. The structure has since succumbed to the vagaries of weather and is steadily but surely wearing away.Nzioka said young children brought to the school by their parents used to play truant and eventually stopped going to school. The structure was not inviting thus safe for a few, many children shunned learning in it and had to run away from school, he added.Mikululo Primary School in Makindu ward is also a beneficiary of the county ECDE transformation programme. Head teacher Agnes Kitheka said the county is building two ECDE classrooms in her school. Besides prospects of the young ECDE learners having ideal facilities and structures to learn in, as the the headteacher, I have also earned collateral benefit by getting an office. I previously operated from a crowded staff room, Kitheka said.Acting Education chief officer Damaris Makau said the ECDE centres initiative is geared towards getting rid of dilapidated and eyesore ECDE classrooms, which where the hallmark of early childhood education in the past. So far, 56 ECDEs are complete across the county and the enrolment has shot up from 40,000 to 48,000, Makau said. As the ECDE programme takes root, the county has set aside Sh5 million in the 2016-17 year for ECDE activities, such as competitions for learners.