The death early in September of William Ronkorua ole Ntimama of Narok was the end of an era. It brought to a close a 62-year political career that saw the little known son of a minor Maa chief of the Il Taarrosero sub-clan, rise to become the undisputed king of the Maasai. In his lifetime, he made it his goal to solve the issues facing the Maasai over which he registered measured success. His death has again brought to the fore the issues for which he had dedicated his life. The question is, after Ntimama, what next for the Maasai? Better still, who next?The casus belliNtimama found the Maasai at war. They were fighting to maintain their ancient way of life and culture at a time British domination was drawing them away from it. Today they at war - fighting different things among them the fast diminishing resources, attrition of their socio-cultural fabric, environmental degradation to name only a few. As one of the last nomadic pastoralist communities left in the world, the Maasai today are a pale shadow of what they were only a generation ago. Moranism is dying and so is nomadism. The moral fabric is disintegrating, gone are the days when cattle-raiding, lion hunting (olamayio) was a status symbol. The realities of modern living are changing the Maasai. This is the new war-front. For centuries, the Maasai regarded land as central to their way of life and even to their very existence. Today their land is under great pressure from among others commercial agriculture, tourism, climate change and a fast growing population and other challenges of this age of globalization. Coming rather late into the monetized economy, land-owning Maasai sold their land to migrants who were largely sedentary subsistence farmers from neighbouring communities. With a weak understanding of the value of money, they sold cheaply seeing God s earth was still big. And so the migrants kept coming many of them settling on land they believed to be empty, others going for the forests that fed the rivers. From initial tiny trickles, the numbers grew and at one point threatened the political leadership of the Maasai whose population was not keeping up. Usually when politics comes into the picture in the face of such emotive issues, violence is not too far away. Indeed numerous violent incidences involving the Maasai and migrants have been reported. The son of MeliliWilliam Roronkua ole Ntimama was born at Melili in Narok. Melili was a historic place the scene of a major standoff between the Maasai and the British who in 1918, tried to forcefully to conscript the Maasai to join the War. The morans refused retreating instead to the forest near Melili. Word reached the KAR camp that the morans had retreated further to Oloolua and so on September 9, 1918, a column marched to capture them. When they entered the forest, they found a deserted camp with nothing more than a few empty huts. The morans had retreated leaving behind a few women and children. As fate would have it, the KAR opened random machine-gun fire killing two women and wounding a few others. The incident deeply enraged the Maasai who protested British heavy handedness. The Lord Delamere, an ardent Maa-phile wrote a protesting letter to the acting Governor Sir Charles C Bowring. Sir Charles appointed him to mediate in the crisis. Lord Delamere who spoke fluent Maa, made for Narok to negotiate on behalf of Government. Before he arrived, the morans invaded the KAR camp on the morning of September 12, 1918 to avenge their women. They were repulsed by brutal gunfire leaving morans 14 dead and many more wounded. The British would deeply regret what they did. There was an immediate war-cry heard all over Maasai country and the morans ravaged every standing shop in Narok, ransacked anything that had been brought by the British cutting down the telegraph and burning buildings. Several Indian and Somali traders in Narok were murdered. It took Lord Delamere s great diplomatic skills to calm down the Maasai. Legalishu who had been humiliated by the British, agreed to meet with Lord Delamere to calm down things. It was against this background that Ntimama was born a few years later at Melili which came to symbolize the resistance against foreign domination. Young Ntimama would then have heard all the tales of the gallant morans who fought the British. His bare feet touched the soil where his fathers had shed their blood. A leader had been born.The long roadNtimama s political career began at a time the Maasai had resigned themselves to their fate after a series of political blunders made by their leaders. It all started when the venerable Laibon Olonana made a dubious deal with the British in 1904 and in the process signed away much of his people s ancient lands and choicest pasturage. It wasn t long before the Maasai realized they had made a monumental mistake. Olonana died in 1909 and Legalishu took over and entered an equally disastrous deal in 1911. The Maasai who had been assured an undisturbed stay in Laikipia, found themselves evicted a second time. In December 1913 they took their cause to London and sued the British. They lost the case when they were declared not to be British subjects.Then another man arose - Molonket ole Sempele, a US educated Maasai, who decided to champion his people s rights. Molonket was the first ever Kenyan to obtain a college degree and had just graduated at Boydton Institute in Virginia. He came back to Kenya in 1912 ready to take on the British in what he understood to be blatant treachery on their part. Molonket underestimated the determination of the land-hungry British to remove the Maasai. He was greatly angered by the push from Laikipia a process that was fraught with deep suffering and massive losses for the Maasai. British machinations put paid his best efforts. Deeply disappointed, Molonket retired to a quiet (and impoverished) life as a Christian functionary within the ranks of the Africa Inland Mission in Kijabe and Laikipia. The Maasai then remained without a substantive leader until very close to Independence. In 1953, the abrupt resignation of John K. araap Chemallan the Rift Valley rep at the Legco, gave way to the rise of Makerere-educated veterinarian John ole Tameno who was selected to replace him. Tameno, a Maasai from Ngong, served a lacklustre two years before he was forced to resign in July 1955 following allegations that he was a Mau Mau sympathizer. Tameno fell when one of his confidantes whom he had sent to Eldoret to collect some money, was arrested and spilled the beans, and so he had to go. The authorities returned to Nandi hoping to convince Chemallan to return to the Legco. A gentleman of his word, the veteran broadcaster declined the offer and that set the stage for the nomination of another.Enter NtimamaThe day in September 1955, Ntimama received word that his name had been forwarded for consideration to replace Tameno. Ntimama now a teacher, had been appointed to the Narok African District Council in 1954. He had graduated from Murang a s Kahuhia Teachers College in 1946 and had privately sat for the Cambridge School Certificate at Alliance High School in 1954. Ntimama met the Narok DC who briefed him about what he was expected to do conduct a number of joint hustings with the other Maasai nominee Dr. Jason C. Likimani. For the sake of regional balancing, two Maasais had been shortlisted for the position - Ntimama and Likimani. Ntimama was up against the refined Dr. Likimani the first Maa (first Kenyan) doctor who, like Tameno, had been educated at Alliance and at Makerere and had just returned from further training in the UK. Other candidates for the position included Saul Akotsi, Joseph Makindu, Jonathan Syeunda, Wilson Abiero, Henry Obanda, Benjamin Kipkemboi araap Keino and Daniel T. araap Moi. The argument was that since a Maasai had just been on the seat, it was better to give a Kalenjin a chance now that Chemallan had declined the offer. It was this decision that saw Moi, then deputy principle at Kapsabet Bible College, enter the Legco. The rest is history.The Glass CeilingNtimama returned to the classroom but the political bug had bit him. He continued in the Narok ADC and in 1958 he was appointed the Clerk of the Council. The Maasai, feeling spited by the forced resignation of Tameno and the selection of Moi, began to complain to the authorities about their marginalization. The new voice leading this was a former clerk at Lord Cole s Kekopey Ranch Justus Kandet ole Tipis. Indeed Ole Tipis began to position himself for Maasai leadership. As soon as Moi was sworn in on October 16, 1955, ole Tipis aligned himself to the new leader even moving in to live in Moi s Pumwani house. Moi and Tipis shared a lot politically including their mutual fear of domination by the larger tribes. It was this association that led such-minded individuals to coalesce around the idea of Majimboism from which the Kadu party would be formed in 1960.Tipis star began to rise after hanging around Moi s coattails long enough to learn the ropes. He put himself against Moi on the ballot in the March 1957 Elections for the Rift Valley Legco seat. Tameno, seeking a comeback also tried out for the seat but they split the Maasai vote so he and Tipis lost to Moi. Tameno then quit politics but Ole Tipis continued to work closely with Moi. Tipis got his chance in March 1958 when he was elected to the Legco as the member for the Central Rift. Ntimama surprisingly got nomination to the Legislative Council joining Tipis in 1959.However, Tipis positioned himself as the champion of Maasai rights overshadowing the much younger Ntimama who in turn looked down on the poorly educated Tipis. A lifelong rivalry had been born. An avid reader, Ntimama had obtained a Diploma in Law from the University of Oxford through distance learning. He however quit the Legco after serving only two years. At Independence, Tipis towered over the other elected Independence Maasai leaders such as John ole Konchellah (Narok West), Senator P.T. ole Lemein (Narok) C.M. ole Tialal (Regional Assembly), Senator G.K. ole Kipury (Kajiado) and Stanley S. Oloitipitip (Kajiado). Even the powerful (colonial) Maasai Chiefs such as Kuntai ole Sangale and Lerionka ole Ntutu were beholden to the brawny Ole Tipis and no one dared challenge him. Except Ntimama. Tipping Ole Tipis Soon after resigning from the Legco, Ntimama became a District Officer in Baringo working until 1964 when he returned to Narok. Ntimama then set his mind on toppling Tipis and from his perch at the Narok County Council, he began chipping away the Tipis juggernaut. Tipis came from the lesser Keekonyokie clan and was dwarfed by Ntimama s larger Purko and so it was them vs. us . As Chairman of the Narok County Council, he captured the Narok Kanu branch chairmanship in 1976 wresting it from the hands of Tipis. That was just the beginning. He stood for the Narok North seat in 1979 but was prevailed upon to withdraw at the last minute and the same happened in 1983. Around that period, Ntimama spent time in the coolers for three months on a politically-motivated charge of incitement . He blamed his woes on Tipis who was then Minister in charge of Internal Security (Nkaissery s present job). When he came out, he was now very popular and President Moi appointed him the Chairman of the National Housing Corporation and later the chairman of the Kenya Grain Growers Coop Union. These appointments were more to contain him or better still appease him. Ntimama finally broke the glass ceiling on March 21, 1988 when he beat Tipis (narrowly) thus ending a three-decade rivalry. He was appointed the Minister for Marketing and Supplies. In September that year his coup de grace over Tipis came when he clinched the powerful position of Kanu national treasurer which Tipis had held for 22 years. With that position, Ntimama towered above other Maa leaders notably John Keen, George Saitoti and others. The crossroadThe Maasai respect age and leadership is passed down after the leading generation is gone. Although Tipis was still alive, Ntimama who came from the younger il Nyangusi age-group took over from Tipis senior il Teerito age-group. Ordinarily, this should not have happened, but the Maasai were caught between modern (political) leadership that did not accept their ancient traditional leadership which was decided over slaughtered animals. Ntimama earned the respect of the Maasai and led for 28 years. Tipis died a broken man in 1994. Today however, it is all systems go. The Maasai have jumped the il Seuri age-group (which Harun Lempaka belongs). The present luminaries are largely from the il Kitoip age-group whence Senator Ntutu, Governor Nkedianye and CS Nkaiserry belong. Governor Tunai and various MPs belong to the younger il Kisaruni age-group but that does not diminish their position in the pecking order. Clanism is another important factor in Maasai leadership. Ntimama was from the Purko clan the largest and so his position was quite secure. However, various realignments that favour political views over clan membership have come into play. The Maasai Council of Elders also holds sway over matters affecting the society. We will wait to hear their voice possibly in the next call to Suswa. The elusive unityAccording to Richard Saning o ole Tanyasis from Narok, the issues facing the Maa are urgent and can only be solved by being united. A member of the il Kisaruni age-group and the il Damat clan, he decries the deterioration of the Maa social fabric and values and feels the future is bleak unless something is done. The Maasai today stand at a giant crossroad. One way is the modern life the other the traditional ways. Western education, government agencies, religious and civil society organizations and many others are working hard to build walls blocking out their traditional ways. Yet it is their ancient traditions that have brought them respect and international fame over the years.Ntimama s failuresNtimama s failure was his inability to move the Maasai from focusing on land to take advantage of what the wider world had to offer. His frustrations over land matters made him attracted to leaders who preached land nationalism. At the end of his life he changed that by choosing cooperation instead. He seemed to read from the same script as Governor Tunai who must be commended for reversing the narrative of confrontation in dealing with migrants choosing cooperation. Tunai was overwhelmingly supported by migrant communities living in Narok.Ntimama s other mistake was to lead without grooming a successor. Several names have been fronted as his possible replacement including Hassan ole Kamwaro, CS Joseph ole Nkaissery. However, in Kenya s divisive politics, Nkaissery s influence may be dimmed by his political alignment which is seen to be at odds with Maasai aspirations. Besides, he has been associated with certain actions that did not go well for him. There are many ways of looking at Ntimama s political career - the question would then be, are the Maasai people any better now than before he came? The straight answer is no. His only consolation would probably be that it could have been worse if he had not been there.