 Huyu mama ni wazimu anapanda miti Januari? (Is this woman crazy planting trees in January?) President Daniel Moi on Wangari Maathai Former Kenyan autocrat Daniel arap Moi was, as quoted above, clearly not the late Professor Wangari Muta Maathai s (WMM) greatest fan. And it was not because, as seemingly insinuated, she would enthusiastically plant trees even in the summer heat of January. Rather it was because WMM had identified and purposed herself as the small hummingbird that, while all the bigger forest animals are desperately fleeing from a raging forest fire, seeks to douse its blazing flames using water gathered using its tiny beak. For Kenya, then as now (although perhaps not proportionately so) was ablaze with patriarchy, authoritarian political governance, ethnic factionalism and mobilization, official kleptocracy and economic sabotage, cultural sublimation and evisceration, and environmental degradation and destruction; and former President Moi was its high or chief priest. Tomorrow September 25th will commemorate five years of WMM s sad and lamentable demise. It would hence be apposite to, in tribute to her rich and valiant history of contrarianism and conscientious objection, draw a few lessons from her life and activism that are as relevant today as they were when she single-mindedly confronted the Moi-KANU dictatorship; that has now morphed to our current political leadership. Faced with our current predicament of the clear and obvious collapse of our national software, the question, hence, would be What Would Wangari Muta Maathai Do?It was her passionate engagement on issues of environmental protection and restoration that clearly catapulated WMM to global stardom. She stubbornly wrestled with the Moi-Kanu government and its supporters over their plans to erect a 60-storey Kenya Times Media Trust (KTMT) monstrosity in Uhuru Park in the late 1980s. Later, WMM refused to budge as they unsuccessfully attempted to carve generous acreage from Karura Forest to build luxury housing and accommodation units. Her activism around other water towers such as the Mau and Ngong Forests was also notable. At her insistence during negotiations for the 2010 constitution, there were strong provisions inserted therein regarding environmental protection. For instance, Article 69 (1)(b) provides The State shall work to achieve and maintain a tree cover of at least ten per cent of the land area of Kenya. In this context, it is clear that WWM would actively question the state as to why 6 years since the promulgation of the Kenyan constitution, tree cover remains below 7% of the land area of Kenya. What are the executive, legislature, judiciary, opposition, county governments, media, religious society, trade unions, civil society, educational institutions, professional bodies, and so on doing to achieve this very noble and attainable constitutional minimum?WMM would also question political tendencies and proclivities towards patriarchy, authoritarianism and dictatorship. She would certainly question the refusal by the political elite to devise and promulgate legislation giving effect to the constitutionally required two-thirds gender rule. She would also likely vigorously wrestle with the so-called tyranny of numbers in parliament, an institution that she held no fear for: in her 2006 memoir Unbowed WMM recalls, for instance, how on November 8, 1989 members of parliament used a parliamentary procedure reserved for a national emergency to interrupt their ordinary business to discuss her. Her crime was that she had asked for the annulment of plans to build the KTMT towers. During this session, WMM was excoriated of leading a bogus organization (the Green Belt Movement) and accused of incitement. One legislator complained that, I don t see the sense at all in a bunch of divorcees coming out to criticize such a complex. Not one to be intimidated, WMM retorted elsewhere, The debate is on the proposed Times complex at Uhuru Park and MPs should not be distracted by the anatomy below the line (if they know what I mean). Instead, she offered the debate over the complex required the use of the anatomy of whatever lies above the neck! It is no secret that WMM was a key mover of the protection of Kenyan culture in the constitution. Now, Article 11(1) states that This Constitution recognizes culture as the foundation of the nation and as the cumulative civilization of the Kenyan people and nation. On this point too, it would be expected that WMM would robustly question what the state, six years after the constitution s promulgation, had done to promote all forms of national and cultural expression through literature, the arts, traditional celebrations, science, communication, information, mass media, publications, libraries and other cultural heritage; recognize the role of science and indigenous technologies in the development of the nation; and promote the intellectual property rights of the people of Kenya. Questions on the reckless accumulation of sovereign debt in the name of development which has almost doubled in barely three years of the Jubilee Alliance party s ascendancy into power would also be in sharp and stark focus. This is given that in September 1998 WMM launched the Jubilee 2000 Coalition which sought the cancellation of the un-payable backlog of debts of poor African countries by the year 2000.Ultimately, WMM would seek to school and mentor younger social, political, economic justice, cultural renewal and environmental protection activists who would seek to deepen much-needed change globally. For it was in a moment of dry despair and lamentation that she mentioned in Gikuyu to this writer, and one other that, Gutiri wa iregi utuire, ( none of the non-conformist generation is left ). Perhaps, that is her challenge to us: to catalyze and facilitate the change aspired for by the 2010 constitution so that our children and their successors may enjoy what would be the fourth liberation of Kenya. Ngure wa Gachanja is a human rights and democratic governance practitioner. The views expressed in this column are entirely his own and in no way represent or articulate those of any organizations he may be associated with.