Impala Saracens Innocent Simiyu has been ruled out of the Kenya Simbas team for the entire season having pulled an achilles injury during the Kenya A match against Hong Kong on August 23. Simiyu who made a massive comeback during the Africa Cup/ Elgon Cup match scoring a try for the Simbas had also captained both the fifteens and the Sevens national teams.Speaking during the naming of the Kenya Simbas team which faces Hong Kong today (Saturday) in the first home international Test match, team manager Wangila Simiyu also noted there were changes with the starting lineup with players having earned slots in the senior team after their good performance during the last match on Tuesday.The Kang ethe twins will start at props for Curtis Lilako and Moses Amusala as KCB s Hooker Peter Karia replaces Sammy Warui who drops to the bench. Amusala has been dropped from the clash against Hong Kong.Impala Half Back Samson Onsomu and prop Dennis Karani make their debuts in the Simbas team after their sterling perfomance in the Kenya A team. Others include new Kabras Sugar signing Dan Sikuta and Strathmore winger Cyprian Kuto. The four players knocked on the door and it was opened for them. They proved they deserved a place in the national team and we gave them. The last time Simbas played against Hong Kong we lost by a big margin of 45-17, but then we did not have enough games as we have nowadays. The deficit was however, reduced by the junior Kenya A team on Tuesday. They beat the Dragons 28-14 and we plan to increase the margin. The Dragons got torched and now the Lions have to be wary. Hong Kong have a high ball kicking game piling pressure at our 22 yards to commit errors and then capitalising on their huge forward play, Wangila notedin an opinion that was also echoed by captain Brian Nyikuli.Wangila said the Simbas have adjusted to the Hong Kong style of play and they intend to pile pressure right from the kick off to the final whistle. They have also worked on the breakdowns which the Simbas had a lot of issues with in past matches.SquadForwards: Joseph Kang ethe, Peter Karia, James Kang ethe, Simon Muniafu, Oliver Mang eni, Brian Nyikuli (Captain), Edwin Achayo( Vice Captain)Backs: Tony Onyango, Darwin Mukidza, David Ambunya, Nick Barasa, Dennis Muhanji,. Linus Simiyu, Michael Okombe, Tony OwuorReplacements: 16. Samuel Warui, Curtis Lilako, Dennis Karani, Dan Sikuta, Max Adaka, Samson Onsomu, Isaac Adimu, Cyprian KutoManagement Jerome Paarwater( Head Coach), Dominique Habimana, Charles Ngovi (Ass. Coach), Richard Ochieng (S&amp;C Coach), Wangila Simiyu (Team Manager), Christopher Makachia( Physio).