Makueni Speaker Stephen Ngelu has threatened to sue Governor Kivutha Kibwana over utterances to the effect that he is mentally disturbed.Differences between the two began last Thursday when Kibwana accused Ngelu of frustrating development in the county. This was after the assembly rejected a volunteer policy proposed by the executive.At a ceremony to commission the construction of a centre of persons with disabilities, Kibwana accused Ngelu of sabotaging his projects and misguiding the assembly into shooting down the policy. Go and tell Ngelu that he is mentally handicapped. That policy must be approved. It was improper for him to think the policy was for the purpose of paying village administrators who are perceived to be my campaigners," he said at Wote Town.Read: Speaker sabotages my projects and lacks vision for county, says KibwanaHe asked MCAs to impeach the Speaker, whom he said was an "enemy of the people and had no vision for the county .In response, Ngelu said the said volunteer policy was shot down because it lacked information required for adoption. The executive committee member failed to appear before the Gender committee to provide information on the policy as required by House procedures; the Assembly could not approve the policy, he told reporters at his rural home in Mtito Andei, Makueni county, on Sunday. I am asking Kibwana to apologise to me for saying I am mentally handicapped or I will take him to court. I never expected such insults from a leader such as Kibwana."Read: I don t trust Makueni Speaker - KibwanaNoting Kibwana demonstrated weakness, Ngelu asked the people of Makueni to prepare to find a competent governor in next year s general election. I do not want to use abusive language against him but I am telling Kibwana that he has failed the people of Makueni," he said. "This county has lagged behind because instead of implementing budgets passed by the assembly, he has used much of his time attacking elected leaders."The Speaker promised to ensure Kibwana loses come the August 8 poll as he "has failed to do what he was elected to do".