IS Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang ula on his way out of Cord? Word has it the Senator from Bungoma and Cord co-principal is soul-searching and plotting an exit strategy after realising he stands no chance to be the opposition coalition s flag bearer at the 2017 polls. It is said Wetang ula and Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale are so unhappy with Co-principal leader Raila Odinga for demeaning them by touring their Western backyard in the guise of purely ODM functions. Wetang ula has even been giving the ODM leader a wide berth after Raila skipped his Muliro Gardens presidential bid launch in April. A bitter Wetang ula and Khalwale at the weekend told Raila to desist from meddling with their Luhyaland politics.***OPPOSITION leader Raila Odinga s handlers are a frustrated lot since they are unable to manage his campaign diary. The officials say that his close friends in politics dictate his movements and the events to attend. Most of the time he attends events not in his diary to please his friends in their strongholds. The friends are happy with it since it helps increase their popularity at the grassroots. However, this adds no value to Raila s presidential ambitions. The development has actually made it harder for the ODM secretariat to create content for sending out to media.***WORD has it that a senior director at a government-owned bank in Kenya who is also the acting MD was overheard at a popular bar on Lang ata Road claiming that the problem at the bank is caused by the chairman. The Latin phrase In vino veritas (In wine, the truth) was coined for fellows just like this guy. In his drunken stupor, the man claimed that the chairman is stealing too much from the bank and that, soon, the institution will collapse. This shocked other revellers, with some saying they will go and withdraw their money so that the bank does not sink with their hard-earned cash.***A meeting was held last Thursday at Unep Gigiri to deliberate on allegations of blatant racism by three senior staff (all white). Following the death of Lord Delamere s son Tom Cholmondeley, the three staffers apparently organised a private wake. Before that they had even used Unep resources to print funeral programmes in a move claimed by many at the organisation to be supremacist and reminiscent of the Cholmondeley school of impunity. Senior black managers at Unep are now mulling on the disciplinary action to be taken against their white counterparts.