Creditor communities the Kuria, the Abagusii and the Somali, among others will have to wait a long time to recover their loans from the Kikuyu and the KalenjinEthnic debt syndrome pollutes democracy. The more tribal politicians talk of these debts, the more they lose the essence of leadership in a multi-ethnic society. Ethnic debts undermine the possibility of Kenya ever becoming a nation.Kenya, for now, is a cocktail of ethnicities united by geography and a shared tax burden. There is little beyond this. The chorus among the power elite remains, to paraphrase writer Michella Wrong, it s our turn to plunder.Let us peel off the complexity of ethnic debt.The Kikuyu owe the Luo, Luhya, Kamba, Kalenjin, Somali, Turkana, Abagusii, and the Kuria, among other creditors. The Kalenjin owe the Kamba, Abagusii, Luhya, Luo, Kuria, and the Somali, among other creditors.Energy CS Charles Keter, who should not be talking partisan politics, is a Kalenjin debt-collector. He was on a debt-collection mission in Gem, last week. His host, Gem MP Jakoyo Midiwo, and the audience, were amused when Keter called up the debt. The debt, he said, accrued from a credit the Kalenjin advanced the Luo in 2007. Then, Deputy President William Ruto, Keter s benefactor, supported Raila Odinga as the ODM presidential candidate.The understanding then, Keter recalls, was that Raila would support Ruto for president. Keter told the audience the debt matures in 2022. But Keter is silent on the backlash of the 2007 presidential election.Ruto and colleagues believed they had proof Raila s presidential win was stolen. The theft triggered the 2008 post-election violence. But Keter and his masters are not going to use the evidence of rigging to write off the debt.By the Keter logic, the Luo are also indebted to the Luhya. Musalia Mudavadi, the Amani leader, was among the lead supporters of Raila s presidential run in 2007. The former Deputy PM may recall the debt in 2022, when he runs for president. Wiper MPs Kisio Munyao, Joe Mutambo and Richard Makenga are also calling up a debt the Luo owe the Kamba, through a 2013 pre-election pact between Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka.Last month, an ally of Ford-Kenya leader Moses Wetang ula was also calling up a Luhya debt. Wetang ula also supported Raila for president in 2013.The Kikuyu are yet to repay the Luo for debts accruing from the 1963 and 2002 election pacts. The 1963 debt, transacted between Jomo Kenyatta and Jaramogi Oginga Odinga as a pre-independence package, has accrued interest for 53 years. In 2002, the Luo advanced another huge credit, to Mwai Kibaki, on which he defaulted on once he became president. Jaramogi s No Kenyatta, No Uhuru and Raila Odinga s Kibaki Tosha! declarations have accrued interest.President Uhuru Kenyatta has promised to repay the Ruto debt in 2022, but there is no guarantee the Kikuyu will oblige.Former President Moi repaid his debt to the Kikuyu in 2002, when he supported Uhuru for president. He repaid more in 2007, when he supported Kibaki for president. He repaid the balance in 2013, when he supported Uhuru for president. Moi, Jomo s loyal deputy for 11 years, and successor, owed his presidency to Old Jomo. Moi, unlike Kibaki, is creditworthy. Creditor communities the Kuria, the Abagusii and the Somali, among others will have to wait a long time to recover their loans from the Kikuyu and the Kalenjin. This talk of ethnic debt is a tasteless throwback to primitive tribalism.