One of the phrases emerging from the political scene as the 2017 election nears is our people must be in government to get development. This was especially so during the recent Jubilee party launch, with those leaving the Opposition citing this as their reason for joining the new Party. The phrase is not new in the Kenya. It used to be standard phrase under KANU, with both Jomo and Moi backing it up with sinister action. With passage of the 2010 Constitution complete with the 47 County Governments, however, one thought that we had moved away from punishing people by withholding development from them for their political views. Yet all this is being put to serious test, with the revival of this being in government for development mantra. An important question to ask regarding this is what it portends for Kenya s path to inclusive development. It in fact brings to light two main schools of thought on development in Sub Saharan Africa. On the one hand is the school that promotes accountability as an instrument of development. The other promotes what is called developmental paternalism. As an instrument of development, accountability delivers collective, gradual yet long-term goods. It also empowers ordinary people by releasing them from dependency on the Big Man. The 2010 Constitution adopted accountability mainly because of these attributes. Developmental paternalism on the other hand considers development a gift from the philanthropic Big Man. An important distinction between accountability and developmental paternalism is that whereas accountability is slow in delivering collective goods, developmental paternalism delivers immediate private goods, and because of this, it is more attractive to individuals compared to accountability. Given the distinct advantages that accountability has over developmental paternalism, particularly for the ordinary people that have no access to the Big Man, one would have thought that ordinary Kenyans would be alarmed whenever hint of a return to developmental paternalism was made. Yet, this is not the case. Even more alarming, Kenyans could be slowly abandoning the 2010 Constitutional choice of accountability as an instrument of development and letting politicians replace it with developmental paternalism that has failed the country before. There could be several reasons for this. First, accountability is fairly new compared to developmental paternalism and as such, it will take time before it replaces developmental paternalism. Historically, our journey towards modern development commenced from the developmental paternalism trajectory. All of the African founding fathers projected themselves as Big Men, with solutions to problems that faced their people. The second reason why accountability is less attractive is due to the demands it places on ordinary people, with its emphasis on collective action from them. Ordinary Kenyans are faced with many collective problems like lack of drugs in hospitals, and accountability demands that they come together and hold the people responsible for these poor services to account. In reality however, ordinary people do not come together to make such demands on the erring public officials because of their own different interests vis- -vis the poor services. The most common of these interests for the Kenyan context is sharing the same tribe with the erring public official, which makes people unable to come together to demand improved services from public officials. Thirdly, unlike developmental paternalism which produces immediate results (e.g. a Big Man walking into a community with loads of cash to contribute towards completing a stalled project), accountability does not produce immediate, spectacular results which respond to pressing private needs. Whatever the merits of developmental paternalism, every Kenyan should worry at its revival as an instrument of development. The benefits that it brings are not only private and exclusive, they also are too short-term to guarantee a future of collective prosperity and peace for our country. [1] The writer works as a Governance and Accountability Advisor for the African region for a UK INGO.