Champs KCB start against Homeboyz under Impala floodlightsChampions Kenya Commercial Bank face Homeboyz as the Impala floodlight tournament kick-offs today from 7pm.The match is a repeat of last year's semifinal match which the bankers won 22-18. KCB have recalled flanker Davis Chenge and speedstar Jacob Ojee for the clash against the deejays. Ojee returns after an ankle injury sustained at the Driftwood Sevens in September 2015. Chenge tore one of his knee's anterior cruciate ligaments in December in the 40-15 win over Kabras.Flyhalf Kenny Andola starts at flyhalf with Kenya Sevens skipper Andrew Amonde at blindside flank. South Africa based Peter Karia starts at hooker alongside Oscar Simiyu and Curtis Lilako in the front row.Kenya 15s internationals Oliver Mang'eni and Darwin Mukidza maintain their positions at second row and fullback as George Asin, Nesta Okotch, Marlin Mukolwe and Edwin Salamba sit on the bench. On their part Homeboyz will parade some of their signings who guided them to the national Sevens circuit title with Tony Owuor, Tony Onyango , Cyprian Kuto and Charles Omondi . Both coaches expect a competitive game. KCB's Curtis Olago said they expect Homeboyz to be tougher then last year."They have made good signings and have bolstered their pack. Us being the defending champions want to start the season with a bang. With the team named I am confident we can win," added OlagoHomeboyz's coach Simon Odongo said they will be gunning for revenge after losing last year's semifinal narrowly to the bankers. We have the momentum from winning the Sevens series and with the new signings we will be a force to reckon with in the 15s this year. I am confident we an beat them, added Odongo.In other fixtures Impala have a date with Strathmore at 5:20 pm and have recalled Kenya Sevens' Sammy Oliech and Ian Minjire to their squad for the clash against the varsity side rebuilding following the exodus of players to other clubs in the transfer window.Mwamba have a date with Quins at 3:40 pm with Blak Blad taking on Nakuru frrom 2pm. In the University category , USIU start against Daystar at 11:05am while newcomers Menengai Oilers tackle Strathmore II at 9:30am Mean Machine face Blak Blad II at 9:30 am at the RFUEA ground. Machine are the most successful club in the history of the event with nine titles, the last coming in 2011.The winners in the club category will pocket Sh200,000 with the runners up going home with Sh80,000. The university champions pocket Sh60,000.