The National Police Service has said their pilots are highly trained to handle all aircraft, contrary to reports of incompetence.Senior assistant Inspector General of Police King ori Mwangi yesterday said the external and internal police recruitment are thorough.Read: Uncertified pilot crashed police helicopterHe said the NPS seeks external recruits, who mainly comprise of retired military pilots, to join the National Police Airwing. Other pilots are recruited internally from the rank ad file.Former military pilots are hired on renewable contracts while internal recruits are employed permanently.He said signals are sent to county commanders for officers with qualifications and impeccable discipline. They then undergo extensive interviews before beginning training locally and internationally.King ori, who is also chairman of the Training Committee at the NPS headquarters, said currently, 16 recruit pilots have been interviewed and are scheduled for training. The police pilots train at the Moi Air Base and later in South Africa.The NPS is currently looking at new contracts for pilots as well as their private sector counterparts to stop brain drain.Pilots will now earn high salaries, although they will hold lower police ranks, unlike previously when they could not earn high salaries unless they attained the high ranks. The police airwing had almost become the national private pilots training schools because organisations would come and offer our pilots huge salaries, Mwangi said. He said that Kenyan police are highly rated internationally because of the high quality of training.Kenya Police Service spokesman Charles Owino said the captain of the AgustaWestland AW 139 helicopter that crashed at the NYS grounds in Mathare last month was highly qualified .Owino said pilots Martin Ndung u and Dennis Odin are well trained.They have both trained at the 43rd Air School South Africa, Starlite Aviation South Africa and Lohmpraha (Czech Republic). There is no question about their competence. The helicopter developed a technical problem while overflowing Mathare. They couldn t crash in the crowded slum so they opted for either Utalii Hotel field or NYS grounds. Investigations will reveal the cause of accident, Owino said.