Interviews for the shortlisted candidates for Kenya Ports Authority MD resume today amid concerns from Coast professionals of political interference. This is the second time the interviews are being conducted. Last time they were cancelled two days to the D-Day.The Coast Professionals Forum has said senior area politicians, including two Cord governors, have fronted their favoured candidates. It petitioned President Uhuru to ensure the selection is free and fair. We are concerned that the delay in concluding the process of hiring the new MD is subjecting the whole exercise to likely manipulation, CPF spokesman Pascal Maitha said at a press conference in Mombasa on Friday.Maitha and CPF member Duncan Mwangome said the manner in which the selection is conducted raises questions. They said the first interview was called on May 10, during which the shortlisted candidates attended. The same shortlisted candidates were invited for another interview, which was scheduled for June 3, but was called off two days to the scheduled date.The candidates have again been invited for an interview on July 4, Maitha said. It is almost two months from the date when the first interviews were held and we, the professionals, are beginning to feel that a particular desired result could be the cause of this delay, he said. We read in the press that some politicians from this region, including businessmen, are pushing for a specific candidate, which can easily mar the objectivity of the whole process, the two said. Our prayer is that, under the stewardship of Marsden Madoka (KPA chairman) and the professionalism and ethical standing of the other board members, the integrity of the process be secure. Mturi was appointed after Gichiri Ndua, who held the office for five years, was sacked by Transport CS James Macharia in a corruption purge at the port in February. "Several serving staff at Kenya Ports Authority had failed to fully exercise their duties to stop or mitigate the possibility of compromising operations and delivery," Macharia said in February. Also sent on terminal leave were general managers Twalib Khamis (Operations), Justus Nyarandi (Corporate Services) and Muthoni Gatere (Board and Legal Services) and head of security Mohamed Morowa.