It is ages since those days when Sammy Ruwa hawked mandazi, sold mitumba clothes as well as operated a video hall in Mombasa.Those were the days when the Kwale County Speaker also did some consultancy work; developing business plans and projections as well as tuition for accounting and secondary school students, in a desperate bid to survive.That is all behind him now. But back then, it was was the life Ruwa was accustomed to; and for sure a career in politics was never on his cards. I had never planned to venture into politics leave alone being a Speaker in the county. These things were never in my mind at all. Never, he says.But his election to lead the assembly changed everything. I felt it was a good because this position gave me the opportunity to give back to the society. After this brief stint at the helm of the Assembly, Ruwa s has taken a 180 degrees turn and he believes he has the necessary experience to serve the people of Kwale as governor. I made the decision after realising that things were not going as I expected. His decision to go for the governor seat is motivated in part because he feels he is more qualified than the incumbent Salim Mvurya in term of academic qualification. He has only one degree in agricultural issues but I have two; one in law and the other in business. I am the only person who can take Kwale to another level. Ruwa is convinced that it will be wrong to remain silent and withhold his ambition because he has everything at his disposal. A coach can substitute a player if he realises that he is not doing well. That is exactly what will happen in 2017 when I will be taking on Mvurya. He also speaks of the gains experienced in the county as a result of concerted effort by the executive and assembly. Achievements realised in Kwale county is through the assembly which has been there to ensure they happen by passing bills and laws. That is something i consider as success, he said.He added that he has been able to guide the assembly using the available laws to deliberate their matters and solve issues amicably without physical engagement like others counties.He described devolution as the best system that is going to help citizens from the grass roots saying that it is currently helping to see resources trickling down to the villages.*****1977: Born in Mombasa.1983: Attended various primary schools including James Gichuru primary, Magongo, Miritini and finally sat for his KCPE at Mtopanga Primary in 1991.1992: He joined Dandora and later Sengani secondary schools in Tala, doing his KCSE in 1995.1996: Doctor Br Ambedkar University, North India, Bachelor of Commerce, graduated in 1998 and later did a degree in law at the same Universty and graduated in 2002.2005: Rock Paradise Academy, Diani, Teacher, and later an Accountant. Admitted to Kenya School of Law the same year and graduated in 2006. He worked at Anjarwalla &amp; Co Advocates, Mombasa, and Yano &amp; Advocate in Eldoret.2009: Opened his law firm dealing with properties in Eldoret, relocated to Mombasa in October 2009, employed by Robson Harris and company advocate.2013: Elected Speaker of the Kwale county Assembly.***********2015: There has been pressure from all quarters for me to resign after I announced my interest in the governor s seat. I am not the resigning type. I decided to go public because people have been looking for a candidate who can take over the position. Others even threatened to eject me out of my office but I stood firm. The law protects everyone and that is what I use to move on. 2016: I have resolutely declared to run for the seat with my family s blessings and more so because Kwale residents deserve good governance. There is need for me to run for that seat. Although we have different roles to play, our focus should be to achieve the same goal of service delivery to the public. I have differed several times with the governor because he is resistant to change. Time has come to bring that change. 