Everyone knows those weddings where the bride and groom s only intention is to show off, even if they will go dead broke while at it. These are the nuptial celebrations where no cost is spared, and the line between sophisticated extravagance and ridiculous absurdity are dangerously blurred. You know those ones, where exotic food is presented by dancing waiters, and the entertainment includes a philharmonic orchestra, fireworks, magicians and acrobatic monkeys in bow ties for guests to pet.On Saturday, that couple was UhuRuto . Theirs was actually a lavish renewal of vows and a co-opting of guests to declare support to their union. All the bridesmaids, both the willing and coerced, came decked out in the theme colours and dutifully smiled all day.The whole country was invited to the spectacle, both physically and virtually. In fact, we were even invited to the rehearsals, given a sneak preview of the line-up and treated to images from an advance photoshoot of the happy couple.The goal of the JP pageantry, just like the average conceited bride and groom, was to impress everyone, make tongues wag and earn the Wedding of the Year title. But, as you would imagine, there are additional, far more important goals for the new house of JP.The main one was to scatter its jealous political enemies and display its might, giving an illusion of victory as a forgone conclusion in 2017. This is a genius strategy in my view, it could not be better. However, it could also work against them.The pros of the pomp are clear. First, a display of wealth and might is standard procedure come election time in Kenya. It is likely that a politician traversing his constituency in a big car will defeat the poor one campaigning in a jalopy, or worse, walking door-to-door begging for votes.So voter history tells us that you are most likely to inspire votes while dripping in gold and Kenya shillings, otherwise one can only inspire sympathy. Not to say that there have not been cases where sympathy or relatibility have not translated into votes, but these cases are few and far between.That is why JP is taking the tried and tested method and they are doing this on the national platform. However, there is great danger in this strategy. JP must remember two things. First is that politics is about perception. How the voters interpret what they see translates into votes or lack of them.The illusion of an all-powerful, unbeatable powerhouse of a party may lead to voter lethargy. The show of might could mislead the voters to think that the battle is already won, and so their one measly vote will not count. This could work the other way too by causing the opposition voters to be under the impression that the other side will definitely win, and so they may not bother to turn up at the poll station.The second thing to remember is that all politics is local. This means that a politician, no matter how high he goes in the political food chain, relies on grassroots support. This is his electoral base. Without it, he would not be in office. So the question they must ask is, is this pomp enough to motivate voters to make their way to polling stations come August 8? Particularly in the voting bases that JP will take for granted as their strongholds .Grand wedding displays are obviously always meant to dazzle guests and acquaintances, not family and close friends who know you as you really are without the pomp. Neglecting this home ground could end up being costly. UhuRuto , beware those who show up at your extravagant wedding to make merry, but not turn up on the day you need them the most, at the ballot.