When The Coca-Cola Africa Foundation (TCCAF) announced the Replenish Africa Initiative (RAIN) in 2009, to improve sustainable access to safe water for two million people in Africa by the end of 2015, it was an ambitious and bold goal. But, with collaboration and dedication with more than 140 global and local partners, it has proven possible. At the forefront of this initiative is Dr Susan Mboya-Kidero, wife to Nairobi governor Dr Evans Kidero and president of The Coca-Cola Africa Foundation and group director of Women s Economic Empowerment, The Coca-Cola Company. Since RAIN s launch, the program has reached more than two million people with sustainable safe water access. The sustainable part is very important. Our projects have been built with partners and designed to ensure that the local community is able to sustain the program over time and continue to benefit from the safe water access it provides. Projects are designed with modest financial structures, community members are trained on operations and maintenance, Dr Mboya said. She further adds, However, while the our initial goal was achieved, this is not the end. Quite the opposite: it s time to do more in terms of RAIN (or safe water access). The Coca-Cola Africa Foundation has pledged an additional US$35 million (Sh3 billion) to support Pan-African safe water access programs that will bring the total number of RAIN beneficiaries to six million. By 2020, the total investment will be US$65 million (Sh6.5 billion). The Replenish Africa Initiative also involved collaboration with partners including the Global Environment and Technology Foundation (GETF), the United States Agency for International Development (USAid), Water and Sanitation for the Urban Poor (WSUP), the Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC), WaterAid, Water for People and many others. Together, these partners have empowered 2,000 communities and schools making RAIN the leading Pan-Africa safe water program that has the support of governments, communities and partners in 37 of the 55 African countries. Success storiesIn Somaliland, RAIN helped bring safe water access to 224,000 displaced people. In schools across the continent, over 217,000 students have received safe water access and sanitation, creating healthier learning environments. In Kenya, RAIN worked with WSUP to strengthen water utility services, providing increased sustainable water access and job opportunities in the community for nearly 50,000 people.Future goalsIn addition to the safe water access goals for 2020, RAIN partners aim to economically empower up to 250,000 women and youth; promote health and hygiene in thousands of communities, schools, and health centers; and replenish up to 18.5 billion litres of water to nature and communities every year. Africa is a part of what Coca-Cola is made of and as long as safe water access challenges remain there, we will remain committed to helping address them, Dr Mboya said during the World Economic Forum on Africa 2016 in Kigali, Rwanda.