ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has not ruled out working with Raila Odinga's Cord in the 2017 elections.But he has ruled out any possibility of forming an alliance with President Uhuru Kenyatta's Jubilee Party. [VIDEO] I won t work with Uhuru - MudavadiMudavadi, who addressed the media at the party secretariat on Wednesday, reaffirmed his willingness to work with Cord once it decides who among the co-principles should the coalition's presidential flagbearer.Cord leader Raila Odinga said at the weekend that he ready to battle it out with co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetang'ula for the presidential ticket.Read: Mudavadi wants Uhuru, Raila to back him in 2017 I am ready to work with people who are ready to serve Kenyans. Right now I am not having any talks with Cord until they put their house in order, Mudavadi said when he received MPs who had joined Jubilee back to his party. The defection of the MPs elevates the status of ANC that is yet to participate in an election. I will never negotiate with Jubilee and I will never join Jubilee. ANC is the is the future of Kenya, its growing day in day out and the government we will form in 2017 will be non tribal, he said. Among the MPs who trouped back to ANC are Sakwa Bunyasi (Nambale) and Alfred Sambu (Webuye East). Sabatia MP Alfred Agoi, a key ally of Mudavadi, was also present. Also read: Mudavadi, ANC to hunt for votes in Coast Cord zoneBunyasi and Sambu were elected on the UDF party that has since dissolved to form Jubilee party. We have obeyed and trusted the advice of our voters and chosen to join other Kenyans in strengthening a party founded on the principles of democracy. We want to strengthen devolution, fight corruption and promote decent politics, he said. During the run up to the 2013 elections, Mudavadi, then in UDF, had signed an agreement with Uhuru and DP William Ruto, that the two would later renege. The arrangement was to have the ANC leader as the presidential candidate under Jubilee after indications that Uhuru may not be elected owing to the crimes against humanity case they were facing at the Hague-based International Criminal Court.