Supremacy battles between Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana and Speaker Stephen Ngelu are expected to dominate DP William Ruto s tour of the county on Tuesday.The Governor has vowed to demand explanation from Ruto on whether Ngelu is working for him and therefore frustrating developments in the county. We are waiting for [Ruto] to say whether he has sent [Ngelu] to sabotage Makueni. He has been going round claiming to be working for Ruto while we know he has not been meeting him, Kibwana said in Wote town. He has been visiting EACC claiming to be working for URP. He has made us unable to work. Read: Speaker sabotages my projects and lacks vision for county, says KibwanaRuto will be in Kibwezi subcounty, where locals are engulfed in a tussle with the University of Nairobi over an expansive piece of land.The residents are demanding development of the UoN field station land so that they can benefit from it or they be allowed to use it. Kibwana and Ngelu are expected to trade barbs during the DP s tour to settle outstanding political scores.Read: I don t trust Makueni Speaker - KibwanaHe accused Ngelu of double speak, saying Ngelu had pledged to work with him in consultations only for him to renege and sabotage the executive by shooting down bills in assembly. One man cannot hold a whole county with more than a million people at ransom. We are tired of him and as Makueni people we must say clearly that we don t want Ngelu. On Sunday, Ngelu has threatened to sue Kibwana for making utterances to indicate he was mentally hand capped. More on this: Speaker Ngelu threatens to sue Kibwana for calling him 'mentally disturbed'Their differences led to impeachment of Kibwana by members of the county assembly in 2014 and near-dissolution of the county government.Residents held peaceful protests in Makueni and Nairobi in support of Kibwana and urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to dissolve the county and call for by-elections to allow them send home the MCAs. But the President rejected recommendations of a task-force he had formed to investigate the political standoff in the county after conclusion of their probe in October last year. The task-force led by Central Bank of Kenya chairman Mohamed Nyaoga had suggested dissolution of the county government to allow by-elections.