Ugandan media personality, Timothy Kalyegira a penned a scathing Facebook post about Queen Of Katwe, a film shot in the country. The Disney film follows the life of Phiona Mutesi who lives in a slum called Katwe in Kampala. The 10-year-old Phiona (Madina Nalwanga) and her family live is constant struggle. Her world changes one day when she meets Robert Katende (David Oyelowo), a missionary who teaches children how to play chess. Phiona becomes fascinated with the game and soon becomes a top player under Katende's guidance.Her success in local competitions and tournaments opens the door to a bright future and a golden chance to escape from a life of poverty.Timothy who attended the premiere over the weekend called the movie "an embarrassment".Read the post here --&gt; Ugandan media personality brands Lupita's movie an "embarrassment"Now, he has come out to defend his post. Ladies et gentlemen, to wrap up on this saga over the "Queen of Katwe" and the criticism I've come in for, here are my final views: 1) The tone of most of the criticism confirms that Ugandans still live and think primarily in social terms. Cordiality and social fitting-in are still our core values, not blunt, cold, impersonal facts. That's why even most Ugandan business news reports and features are about cocktail parties, corporate social events, ceremonial launches and awards galas, not figures and data on profit, losses, mergers and acquisitions by companies. Ugandans generally want to be accepted, loved, felt for and shown the positive side to life and find it difficult to handle cold, withering, impersonal criticism. 2) In responding to criticism or confronted with an alternative view and lacking the weapons with which to hit back, most Ugandans resort to a denunciation of the one raising the matter. It can't be that the person might have a point in raising it; something must be intrinsically wrong with him or her. An African who defends or admires Europeans can't be himself; no, he must be brainwashed. There are no grey areas of nuance. It must be that you are good or bad, not different. 3) In all the criticism I've received so far for my rather uncharitable view of "Queen of Katwe", I marvel at the fact that not a single person has noted that I said the film has good cinematography. I don't know if this omission is because people are too angry with my dismissal of the film to see the one positive comment I included, or perhaps because they don't understand the technical side to film production. But I am struck that my positive view of the cinematography has gotten lost amid the bickering. 4) The difficulty that most Ugandans have with grasping a sequence of thoughts, the train of thought in an idea or statement and understanding what was meant in that statement, has come to the surface during this debate. In my post, I mentioned a European woman getting up to leave the movie theatre and I followed her to the door. It was part of the detailed narration I had been giving of the evening, but amazingly many -- including some of our best educated people -- misunderstood that to suggest that I left the theatre because I saw a European woman get up and leave and for that reason alone. This brought to the fore the question of comprehension. These subjects like literature and philosophy that we Ugandans tend to dismiss as not being "practical" or not helping us find a job, were not included in our syllabus for decoration. They are the subjects that help us develop the ability to comprehend a thought pattern and make sense of it, that's why law schools require a good score in literature at A'Level for entry. Lawyers -- who during their careers will be dealing with the precise meaning of words, terms, the exact phrasing of court rulings, contracts and agreements and the underlying meaning of situations -- must be able to have a clear grasp of words and their implication. This is where literature comes in handy. The many posts that totally misread what that statement about following the European woman out of the theatre meant, underscored why we need to buy and read complex books with long indexes and complex ideas. Reading really does help develop the mind. If the only book one reads the entire year is Facebook, then we have a national problem. Reading more complex books than we do at present will help us learn to follow detailed discussions without confusing a metaphor for a literal statement or totally missing simple arguments. 5) Finally, many of us today spend a good part of our time watching TV or online. Let's make use of our pay TV channels for what it's worth. If you follow world news and entertainment news, you might have heard of the crisis in the film industry in Hollywood in California. There are growing protests among the African-American community that Hollywood is much too "lily White" in its ethnic representation. Too many Whites are given major and minor acting and directing roles in the movies and Whites get a disproportionate number of Emmy and Oscar awards. That is the complaint. A number of Black actors and actresses boycotted this year's Oscar awards, demanding more roles for Blacks in the big ticket movies. Given all this, we might need to be a little more cautious about taking the rave reviews of "Queen of Katwe" by White critics to mean it is a great film. Some of us who know how the Western world thinks are not surprised by these overwhelmingly positive and uncritical reviews of the Katwe film. Which White film critic in America today would dare dismiss the film as below average in the way that I did, given the sensitivity over race that's eating up their country? Do not be surprised if "Queen of Katwe" receives a large number of Academy Award nominations next year. Not because it a great film or even a good film, but as a marketing and public relations gimmick by White-controlled and White-dominated Hollywood. The calculation would be: Have a film set in Africa sweep the Oscars in 2017 and by that help cool down the anger in the Black American community. A lot of what goes on in the entertainment industry is as much about politics as it is about art. The one thing I give Whites credit for, among the many, many things I give them credit for (despite my reservations about some of their weird ways) is their smartness and foresight, their ability to make mental connections that the rest of us tend to miss. "Queen of Katwe" is not a great film. It is not even a very good film, by a strict technical, artistic measure. It's a feel-good film for Ugandans and lifts our national pride, which is fine for us. But in strictly technical and artistic terms, it is a labour of love by Hollywood to serve its Public Relations and make White Hollywood look "all-inclusive".