David Nkedianye was whisked away to safety by his security team following a scuffle with Jubilee Party followers in Mosiro, Kajiado county, on Thursday.The Kajiado Governor was forced off the dais after his speech was cut short by the rowdy crowd during a fundraiser for Mosiro women at Oldorko Secondary School.The Governor, who was not invited to the fundraiser, stormed into the event that had been organised by Jubilee's Jonathan Koroine. Koroine is an aspirant for the Mosiro MCA post, whose by-election will take place on October 26.Chaos erupted when the Governor stood to address the crowd, urging residents not to vote for the JP candidate. He said the ruling coalition had neglected the county. Those who have come to raise funds for you are messengers of doom and cannot be trusted. They will come and ask for votes and you will never see them after the election, he said.It was at that point that Kajiado West MP Moses Sakuda shouted at him asking him to shut up and respect Jubilee. Mr Governor, it is shameful for you to come and disrupt our meeting. Nobody has provoked you to warrant such an attack from us. Give us respect, he said amid shouts from the crowd.Sakuda claimed the Governor had displayed immaturity in front of his people. This is total disrespect for the people of Mosiro. We have never gone to their (ODM) meetings to do such shameless acts, he said.Read: We ll unseat you, Sakuda tells NkedianyeAlso read: Nkedianye, MCAs in bitter exchange after walkoutAn AP officer who was standing near the Governor advised him to step away from the table from he was addressing the people. His security team then came and led him away.Nkedianye's attempt to give his contribution was thwarted by the crowd who shouted at him saying they did not want his money.He was chased away along with ODM candidate Peter Tirishe.County commissioner Harsama Kello, former Interior CS Joseph ole Lenku and a horde of elected and nominated MCAs attended the fundraiser.Lenku called on the people to maintain peace during campaigns for the Auust 8, 2017 general election. The government has never discarded you as some members of the opposition claim," he said. "It is wrong for the opposition to use some of the historical land injustices as a tool of getting votes. The government is here and has always listened to your grievances."