Mwende MbaeEntrepreneur, blogger, student and founder of Itsamamazworld organisation Itsamamazworld is an organisation that supports young parents. Through shared stories and experiences, IMW inspires, heals and restores the lives of the growing number of young parents to ensure they do not give up on themselves or on the life they are bringing forth. We empower them to keep chasing their big dreams, to give them the support they need to be the great parents we believe they already are through mentorship and guidance, says Mbae, who runs a blog and YouTube channel by the same name.6AM: I have my morning devotion (once upon a time, this happened at 5am). I prepare breakfast for my two-year-old daughter while showering. I place the uji (which usually takes 15 minutes to get ready) on the fire. Once it starts to simmer, I run and take my shower, and I m out the shower before I burn down the house. I dress as the porridge cools.7AM: I pack her schoolbag and wake her up. I give her a shower, get her dressed and give her breakfast.7.45AM: I do all other last-minute preparations, pack my own bag, grab a quick bite, leave the house by 8am and drop her off at school by 9am.9.30AM 12.00: I respond to emails, check my social media accounts. I just signed up for gym, so I start my workouts between 9.30 and 11.30am.12.15PM: Pick-up time. I drop my daughter back home. During this time, she takes her nap.1PM-5PM: I have my lunch, dash off to any scheduled meetings, then proceed to evening classes. 9.30PM: I get back home around this time. If I arrive earlier, I put my little one to sleep. Our bedtime routine looks like this: I ll do her hair, read her a Bible story, then sing her a song. We say a prayer then she will try and convince me severally that she needs to go to the bathroom. After a lot of crying and tantrums, she finally gives in.I have some time to myself, catch up on some chats, finalise pending work, pray, then sleep. If I m editing any video, I will do it right before I sleep, but this would keep me up until 3am or 4am.On Thursday evenings, I have Bible Study in my neighbourhood from 5-8.30pm.WEEKENDSOn Sundays, I attend the 11 am service at Karen Vineyard Church, then spend time with family or organise a play date with a friend.Though on some special Sundays, on a monthly basis, I meet my small group of mums, where we just talk, get to know each other share our experiences, give support, laugh, etc. Any mom is welcome to attend.