SIX months ago, I stopped carrying a handbag. Crikey, I hear you say. Call the fashion police, stop the presses, or maybe turn the page because, frankly, who cares?But hold on a moment and bear with me, for this is a playful, occasionally funny, column about being a working mum, so my new pockets-only experience may turn out to be useful.Frustrated by the hundreds of wasted hours I ve spent rooting around the bottom of a giant shoulder bag looking for keys, phone, snacks hours I could have spent watching TV box sets or eating chocolate Hobnobs I decided to release myself from daily handbag tyranny.After all, even though I ve got an enviable collection, I barely used anything in the bag I carried round, so why the hell did I need it?I wanted to be liberated and hands-free, like a man. The responsibility of filling a handbag with stuff from an imaginary things-I-might-need-in-an-emergency list is painfully time-consuming. I m just off out for the day, not trying to survive on Bear Grylls s remote island.I have never once encountered a situation where that spare safety pin came in handy.And in the chaos of our mornings I would envy my husband who simply popped on his coat and sped out the door with the two kids he was dropping off.I was hampered by extra luggage as I held the hands of our younger two on the walk to drop off. So one day, I put everything in a tiny wallet and waltzed out lighter all over.This is ironic because I have an enviable collection of handbags, working as I do for a fashion magazine.If you fancy a romp through it-bags of the past 20 years, then I m your woman.But after I had my first child 14 years ago, my handbag somehow morphed from stylish accessory to daily survival kit.I started cramming it with all manner of things just in case , until earlier this year, when I realised my youngest is now five.She no longer needs boxes of raisins, spare knickers, tissues, toys, wet wipes, hair clips, colouring pens and plasters. And I am so low maintenance on the make-up and hair front I really don t need anything more than money and my phone.It felt weird at first. Every time I got off the bus or Tube I was filled with a false panic that I had left something behind. And I felt as if I was letting down the sisterhood; after all, surveys show that one in ten women has at least 15 handbags, Americans spend $11.7 billion a year on luxury bags and apparently buying them gives more pleasure than buying any other accessory.Not me. My bag-free mindset has changed my life. The sense of freedom from not being responsible for a bag is small surprise gift.I have discovered a few things: the pockets of dresses, skirts and trousers are much smaller for women than men, which doesn t seem fair. Also, you don t need to brush your hair 18 times a day.No one has noticed I m not carrying a bag, and my occasional trips to the gym with a backpack mean I can still bring anything important to work.I was congratulating myself on my practical vision of the future of womanhood when a colleague pointed out the hidden emotional meaning of the new, no-bag me. It s all over, isn t it? she said. The toddler years are gone, you ve discarded that bit of your life as a mum to small children. And you re not a pre-kids woman, running round town lusting after a shopping hit. You re a grown-up now. This didn t help with the creeping sadness of sliding towards 50, with a family growing up so quickly they look taller when they get in from school than when they left that morning.It seems the day I stopped carrying around a bag of enough stuff to stock the baby department at John Lewis was the day I accepted my little ones no longer need my Mum s survival kit .And that is a melancholy motherhood moment one no one prepares you for.* LORRAINE CANDY is editor-in-chief of Elle magazine.