Sensational Bongo flava singer Ray C was once an exceptional artiste. Still is. She was a mega star that everyone admired and her songs were widely played. She was a sweetheart and her presence was highly appreciated. But things took a drastic turn after she started abusing drugs. Her move clearly shocked everyone as no one thought she would take that road.A few months a video surfaced showing her misbehaving by the roadside while intoxicated and many believed that she was high on heroine, but the claims were never verified. But various media reports claimed she must have been high. After all that drama, she went back to rehab for the second time where she has been receiving help. It seems she's doing great as her Instagram posts are showing all is well.In one of her Instagram posts, Ray C is clearly in love with Diamond and Zari as she went ahead and jotted down a long post with nothing but praises.She wrote, "Seriously Namaste lil bhaia! ngoja niwe mkweli wa nafsi yangu nipate nafuu dude! That Salome of Yours is damn hot!The Powerful couple in this industry kwa sasa bila ubishi wangu ni hawa wachapakazi wawili, bidii katika kila walifanyalo, go getters, wanavyopeana nguvu katika kazi zao, team work team work team makes everything go the it should be and that makes me fall in love with these two hard working souls! everysecond of the day, lil bro u really smart dude, i respect you for that roho ya upendo ulionayo ndio inayozaa matunda bora ya vipaji lukuki vinavyotamba sasa angalia Raymond!Harmonize!!!! Angalia upendo wako unavyozaa matunda bora, Mungu sio kipofu anaona lil bro! Baraka zake kwako hazitaisha dogo you deserve every penny lil bhaia! am a fan all the way keep chasing tht paper, i admire your management team, how serious you guys are in ths industry of ours..I don't call u Simba no more dude! I call you THE GURU OF THE INDUSTRY! haaaaaaaaaa nilitaka kusahau mama weee baiiiiiiiii the wayyyyyyyyyyyyy kale kapicha kangu kalikobandikwa wasafi studios weeee eeeeee weeeee nimejishauaje sasa weweeeee mpaka mama angu nimemringishiaaaaaaaa kaka angu nimemringishiaaaaa mjomba nimemringishiaaaa yani acha weweeee nimefurahi saaaaana sana umenipa moyo mdogo wng ASANTE SAAAAANA ,Thats very kind of you lil bro!STAY BLESSED LIL BHAIA! @diamondplatnumz And I am Your Shabikj Makini without any reasonable doubt."