Let me start by saying this: There is nothing criminal or illegal about elected leaders or aspiring candidates running the affairs of a political party or the Jubilee Party specifically, for that matter. Neither the law, nor the party constitution forbids elected leaders from doing this.It is however important to note that politics is not just a matter of law or criminality. Politics is also to a large extent about perception and ethics.It has become abundantly clear that by having politicians or people aspiring for political office or even people who are already elected to political office running the affairs of a political party two or three things happen.First, there is a perception of bias. It is difficult to envisage a situation in which I am seeking to be an MP of an area and will really allow fair competition by my opponents when I am an official of a political party.Second, the management of a modern political party has become a full-time responsibility. Electioneering itself is a grueling process and it is difficult to see a party boss undertaking his successful campaign and at the same time managing the affairs of the political party.It would be extremely difficult to divide yourself between your politics and the affairs of the party and a level playing field for your rivals, including sworn enemies.For these reasons the reality is that it is unlikely a candidate would allow someone who is running against him to get the nomination certificate.And, more important, there is the time factor: It becomes an issue of great importance that the persons who wish to dedicate themselves to the management of political parties in this modern age, era and time, accept it as a full-time responsibility. And all candidates who are going to run on that political party s ticket should have full confidence the people they are competing with are not the ones who are going to determine who the successful candidate is. As the President and Deputy President said: Let us raise the bar for the management of our political party. . . The persons who are going to manage this political outfit must be people who are . . . not splitting their time between the management of party affairs and their own pursuit of elected office. Party officials should not be seen as also being contenders in the ring.Oloo is the former TNA secretary general