Jubilee Party was unveiled last week at a launch that sent tremors through political circles in Kenya. The party, an amalgam of several small parties, was born under the cloud of allegations that its proprietors are reversing the gains of pluralism and watering down the blood that was shed in the clamour to expand the democratic space in Kenya. In short, it is (re)introducing the narrative of integration through cannibalization of lesser parties to establish dominance. This idea has been used before but it led to outcomes that the founding fathers of Jubilee are probably blind to. The display of pomp in Kasarani added colour to the political landscape never mind that Kanu is claiming Jubilee colours as its own. To steal some fizz from Jubilee, the Orange Democrats retreated to Mombasa and performed their version of the haka. What emerged from the dualized razzle-dazzle is that without doubt, William Ruto is the muscle of Jubilee not Uhuru while Mombasa Governor Ali Hassan Joho is the muscle of ODM - not Raila. William Ruto is simply swapping a small stool for a bigger one one tall enough to reach the fruits. Uhuru has already reached the fruits. The big question is whether he will find need for this stool after his term of office.Razor blades. Kenyan political parties and coalition arrangements have notoriously short lives. They live and die according to electoral cycles. Electoral cycles are hard for everyone the high-octane maelstrom sucks everything into an abysmal vortex that ends in ignominy. In the end, all ideologies, principles doctrines that guided the party fathers come to nothing. This is true for most of the now-defunct political parties. Except Kanu. In the first fifty years of Independence, Kanu dominated nearly all of that period and somehow found a way to insulate itself against the vagaries of electoral cycles. Today it takes the pride of place as Kenya s oldest standing party and it therefore offers much in the study of Kenya s political history. At the age of 56, it simply outlived its enemies and it did scarf down a few. So strong was Kanu that it actually took a coalition of parties to bring it down in 2002. It was felled by its first chief executive Mwai Kibaki who had once stated that removing Kanu would be like cutting the Giant fig with a razor blade. He did it by simply increasing the razor blades and the giant came tumbling down. Kibaki also broke its crown by removing its dependable cash cow the KICC once the tallest building in Nairobi and shaped like its index finger party symbol. Today it lives in a nondescript location in Nairobi s Milimani area.Kanu was nearly consigned to oblivion if it had not been for one man - Daniel Moi. Today those who still remain loyal to Kanu are probably loyal to Moi first, then to his party. Although he left power in 2002, he retained his chairmanship of Kanu in what turned out to be a monumental mistake in transition management. Uhuru Kenyatta suffered the grand humiliation of being the only leader of the Official Opposition (possibly in the world) who was not the leader of his own party. Kanu s errant childVirtually all of Jubilee s leading lights were former Kanu top brass less than a decade ago. In fact Uhuru Kenyatta was its last presidential candidate. It has never fielded another since he led them into the Opposition in 2002. Jubilee is more like Kanu s precocious son who fell out with his father and has insisted on moving out to build his own thingira . Pundits will then be forgiven if they see Jubilee as Kanu by another name.Other than William Ruto and Uhuru Kenyatta, there are several familiar old Kanu faces in its frontbench or in the quiet background. One of them would have been William ole Ntimama the inveterate Narok strongman who died early this month shortly after giving his blessing to Jubilee. He first ventured into politics in 1958 three years before Uhuru Kenyatta was born and lived to see him rule three years. Joseph Kamotho had redoubtably prophesied that Kanu would rule a century. He might just have been right. Big Man syndromeParties in Kenya fail for many reasons one of which is money. So grave was the problem that the taxpayer had to come to the rescue. While the conditional Government funding is fairly generous, it is not enough to ensure that parties stand on their feet. They need a doughty plutocrat with deep pockets to get things moving. Jubilee has financial heavy-weights and they are out to seize the day. They perpetuate the Big Man syndrome from which (all) Kenyan political parties undoubtedly suffer. The Big Man could be an individual but more importantly, an idea. Individual because the man or woman is expected to finance party operations through their influence and affluence. His departure almost certainly diminishes the party s fortunes. Lt. Gen. (rtd.) John Koech was rudely awakened to this fact when William Ruto deserted his UDM party leaving him with a purposeless outfit. Kanu became so addicted to President Moi that when he departed from power, its death knell began to sound. Jubilee is already showing signs of addiction to Uhuru Kenyatta and in particular William Ruto. The Big Man is also a mind-set since the parties believe the common folk are attracted to their party because of a prominent individual with popular appeal. The people therefore join the party in genuflection to him. The ODM is largely plagued by this as the crowd actually follows Raila the man not even his ideas. The ODM which has just turned 10, is still alive because it is the political home of Raila Odinga. Look at his old political homes KPU, Ford, Ford-K, NDP, Kanu, LDP, Narc including the Kenya Revolutionary Movement he was said to have founded.When old isn t goldEven though it was founded in 1960, Kanu was in fact the conversion of an older party the Kenya Africa Union founded in 1946. If Kanu can claim that as its true birthday (which it should), then they would be 70 this year. It is however a bad thing to be poor in old age. Bereft of ideas and largely dependent on the fortunes of one family, the party is today a pale a shadow of its former self. The weakness of Kanu can largely be attributed to the intense fear of its own shadow a fear that has dominated the party since it went to reorganize itself at Limuru in 1966. With no competition and an incoherent ideology, the split in 1966 was almost guaranteed to happen. Oginga Odinga left with the soul of Kanu while Jomo Kenyatta remained with its body a lifeless one I might add. But like the proverbial Phoenix, it rose from the dead with the coming of Daniel Moi to power in 1978 rising to become a formidable political force through his 24-year tenure. Despite all its flaws, Kanu must be commended (strongly) for gracefully bowing out of power thereby allowing democracy to flourish in Kenya. The people of Tanzania just next door are still grappling with their Independence party with similar grassroots structures as those of old Kanu. As an important part of Kenya s democratic development, our party system has evolved through three distinguishable phases the era of fragmentation, the era of consolidation and the era of integration.The era of fragmentationSomewhere in 1991, Kenya (re)adopted political pluralism following the repeal of Section 2A of the now defunct Constitution of Kenya (1963). Pluralism however, immediately turned to fragmentation as the new parties began to split to form smaller (regional) parties. Ford (Forum for the Restoration of Democracy) split to form Ford-K and Ford-A and other parties sprouted from them. Kanu remained dominant although it was now waning with its top brass among them Mwai Kibaki, leaving to establish their own parties. Kanu too full advantage of this fragmentation in the 1992 elections. To shore up its waning influence, it turned to buying out opposition legislators and even merging with the smaller parties such as the National Development Party led by foe-turned-friend Raila Odinga. That turned out to be not-so-well-thought out gambit as Raila Odinga began to foment dissent from within. He eventually led a mass exodus and joined up with the struggling Opposition led by Mwai Kibaki serving a fatal blow to Kanu. He left behind William Ruto and Uhuru Kenyatta but these too found their chance to bolt as did Kalonzo Musyoka and Musalia Mudavadi all of whom belong to different parties today. The era of fragmentation lasted between 1991-2002 although signs of it could still be seen beyond that (ODM and ODM-K).The era of consolidationIn order to remove Kanu from power, it was necessary to come together to form a formidable coalition without dissolving the integrant parties. The NARC or Rainbow coalition which brought together several parties, finally managed to remove Kanu from power. Raila Odinga however fell out with Mwai Kibaki and worked out another coalition that gave Kibaki a run for his money in the 2005 Constitutional referendum and also in the general elections of 2007. Using the narrative of consolidation, the 2013 elections were held under several coalition arrangements the Jubilee Coalition, the Cord Coalition and the Amani Coalition. Coalitions have the benefit of allowing consolidation without diminishing the individual party or its base. It seemed to cure the curse of negative ethnicity in Kenya. However, coalitions are too fragile and indeed very vulnerable to even the slightest (careless) remark by a partner member.The era of integrationWhile several coalition arrangements still exist, it appears that Jubilee Party is devaluating the narrative of consolidation by going into the next election as a single party. By gobbling up the small parties, Jubilee is ushering in the new age of integration. Integration was the narrative at Independence when Kanu sucked Paul Ngei s African People s Party and Ronald Ngala s Kadu. This is the real reason why Jubilee is being accused of reversing the gains of pluralism. Integration has issues particularly when you don t manage well the expectations of the integrant parties (or individuals). Moi learnt this lesson the hard way when he orchestrated the integration with the National Development Party NDP led by Raila Odinga. Integration without concrete ideology will only lead to the same short lives of parties.The hard questionJubilee has all the great power men in it and if their ambitions are not well managed, they will lead the disintegration of the party. They will be like shark foetuses who tear one another in utero. If Jubilee somehow survives to the next electoral cycle, it will only be because William Ruto depends on it being alive. The hard question is what would happen to Jubilee if a new kid (from Mt. Kenya) starts his own block in the run-up to 2022?