Some weeks back, William Ruto, talking to voters in Western Kenya, spoke of the anger and bitterness that former Lugari MP, Cyrus Jirongo, had toward him.He came up with a memorable phrase, saying to Jirongo, It is true I was once your general assistant ( mtu wa mkono ). But that was long ago and you should not resent the fact that I am now further ahead of you politically. And what matters now is for you to get organized and move forward too. Words to that effect.Main story: Raila is a bad loser, says William RutoThat was a very statesmanlike sentiment coming from the Deputy President. And it is in total contrast to the way in which Ruto speaks of opposition Cord leader Raila Odinga.He speaks of Raila as a sour perennial loser when it is Ruto himself who was at the forefront of the struggle to stop the rigging of the 2007 general election. An election which I believe to this day, Raila did not lose.It suggests that there is some serious bad blood between the two. But on this I will say that in the end, it is Ruto who will be the loser.I believe that Raila will win the 2017 election, and be in a very strong position to win again in 2022, if he chooses to run. At all events, he thereafter he would remain a very powerful factor in Kenyan politics.Ruto aspires to run for president in 2022. Is Ruto sure that he will not need any votes from the regions which have traditionally supported Raila? That he will need no votes in Nyanza, in Western, in the Coast, or in the Pokot and Turkana areas where Raila is still very popular?My point is that you cannot attack and insult such a prominent leader, and then go to his supporters a short while later, and ask for their votes.Its in just the same way that Raila always respected retired Presidents Daniel Moi and Mwai and never insulted them openly, always limiting himself to constructive criticism. He understood very well that one day he would need votes from their political backyards. And in the case of Moi and the Rift Valley, he got those votes in 2007, which helped him win that election, only to be rigged out.So, back to Ruto, all I can say is that for a man with such vast ambitions, he should surely be able to appreciate that it would be so much easier for him to find acceptance in Raila's political constituency in the future, than in any other.In politics there are no permanent enemies or permanent friends. Martin Otieno Ogindo is a former MP for Rangwe.