Kenya Swimming Federation is once again under the spotlight for the manner in which they have handled applications for FINA scholarships due to start next year. There are seven slots from FINA available. The Federation chairman Ben Ekumbo has been accused of forwarding the application letter from FINA two days after the application process was closed raising eyebrows once again over his conduct. FINA made the announcement for Scholarships on the September 7 and set the deadline for September 25. But KSF released the letter on Thursday for parents to apply, which will be of no help going by FINA dates. There was no clear reason why the application letter was sent to parents two days after the deadline, and some parents speculate that the Federation might have already selected those who will benefit from the scholarship as they did with the team that represented Kenya in the Olympics. This comes barely days after Issa Abdalla s father Abdalla Hemed revealed his son is yet to secure his scholarship he was awarded in January by FINA. Hemed has accused the Federation for taking them in Circles since January. Every day we are told to change the application and forward to KSF, we have always done that but after that they go silent on us, we sent the latest application just the other day and no one has spoken to us, he said. Issa was entitled to receive $1,250 per month for his swimming kits as well as lessons but this is yet to happen with his father forced to finance his son s swimming activities. Issa is currently in UK where he is schooling and the father says it s not easy paying for his school fees as well his swimming fee. No KSF was available to comment on the issue. It has also emerged FINA cater for swimmers travelling to world swimming championship, something parents did not know until last week on Friday. Over the past years, Parents have been catering for their children s expenses when they travel to take part in the world championship. What they didn t know is that FINA caters for all expenses. The management has been very bad, they think we are fighting them but all we want is a good management and a good environment for our children Hemed added. The next world championship is in Canada where eight swimmers are expected to represent Kenya. So far only Issa and Rebecca Kamau have qualified for the championship.