As the African Green Revolution Forum 2016 gets underway in Nairobi, I sat down with Agriculture permanent secretary Dr Richard Lesiyampe who spoke on the strides and challenges the ministry is grappling with. President Uhuru Kenyatta was to commission the multi-million blending fertiliser plant in Eldoret last week which was later cancelled. Why and will the prices of fertiliser reduce? Will the plant address issues of fertiliser shortage and quality of fertiliser to enhance productivity?As a government, our strategy for Vision 2030 on fertiliser is actually in three folds. One,was to deal with bulk importation of fertiliser and that is what we have been doing since 2009 and this is basically to stabilise the fertiliser prices.To reduce the cost of production in all crops, we need to provide our farmers with certain critical inputs including fertiliser. For the last three years of Jubilee administration, we have procured 500,000 metric tonnes of fertiliser which we are selling to our farmers between Sh1,500 and Sh1,800 per 50 kg bag. The number of farmers who have accessed this fertliser has risen from 400,000 to now 1.5 million farmers.In 2013, a 50 kg bag of NPK fertliser in the open market was costing Sh4,500 and because of our intervention, and the subsidy, we have brought open market prices of the same kilos of fertliser to Sh3,200. The government is only procuring 30 percent of the required fertiliser in Kenya while 70 percent is actually procured by our businessmen, companies that are involved in fertiliser and other agricultural products. National subsidies are not usually sustainable. We will definitely bring on board the private sector to be fully involved in provision of this fertliser.The subsidised fertliser is only supposed to benefit the smallscale farmers but we have incidences where some of the fertiliser has been looted by unscrupulous businessmen, sometimes in cohort with some of our staff. They divert the fertliser to other business people who sell it at higher prices than what the government has recommended and we are taking measures to tame this including automating the registration system and rebranding the bags. What is the government doing to ease the process of accessing fertiliser for farmers?We will soon be rolling out another process which is shorter and more foolproof so we will not have the wrong people getting those vouchers. Similarly we are also cutting on the procedures which were very lengthy that included acquiring a letter from the chief.With an automation system, where farmers are registered and we have their telephone numbers and IDs, it will be an opportunity for us to ensure that they can give us feedback when they receive the fertliser or even when they don t receive it. We also asking the NCPB to fit in tracking equipment on the vehicles that are actually transporting fertliser and this will definitely reduce the privilege and diversion of the same.Last month, you suspended 22 senior officials from the NCPB for their involvement in fertiliser loss. Give us an update on this issue?Yes, they were suspended and a number of them have been found culpable and have already been dismissed. Investigations are still going on and we have to follow procedures and they are being subjected to that. Every planting season, we always have cases of fertiliser shortage and loss. What is the government doing to curb this?This year, we are going to procure this fertliser very early in advance. We want to have fertliser for the next long rains available in the country by December, latest December. It then becomes easier for us to ensure farmers get it on time and there will be no opportunity for anybody to swindle.Further, we are seeing that we also want to work through cooperative societies and farmers associations. This will also give us a leverage to ensure that middlemen and brokers are regulated. But what is very important is that we are getting a blending fertliser plant by the Japanese in Eldoret and another one in MEA in Nakuru and we believe that with blending of fertiliser closer to the people, it becomes easier for them to access the right fertiliser for their crops and soils. This will also reduce transport cost, improve on yields and ensure logistically, we can manage to provide our farmers with fertiliser. Going forward, we need to appreciate that we do not have materials to manufacture fertiliser in Kenya, we require natural gas, oil and all these materials we do not have, if anything we don t even have then in the region. The only country in Africa that has got some of these materials is actually Morocco. Early last month, the government released one million bags of subsidised maize to millers in order to stabilise the cost of flour. Have you been able to achieve this? We had mentioned that we have enough maize in the country and we met with the millers, growers and NCPB and the challenge was not that we didn t have enough maize stock, but that millers wanted some specific grades of maize.We released the one million bags and I can tell you as we speak now they have not taken more than 300,000 bags. This also confirms that we were not having a shortage. Notwithstanding, this has not brought down the prices but has stabilised them and prices have not continued going up. We are talking with the millers to now really bring down the prices as we have enough maize, and we are getting more maize into out national strategic food reserve because harvesting has started this month in South Rift. It has been two years since the merger of the Kenya Agricultural and Livestock Research Organisation (KALRO), how is it working?Strategically we thought and we still believe that it was useful to merge all these institutions to bring them under one management. The reason was actually for appreciating synergy, to reduce waste and also reduce duplication. Mergers are usually a process and its not a quick situation. And therefore it has been quite successful interms or reduction of cost and duplication but we are still experiencing some teething issues. One, which is very important, is the issue of culture. We are talking about 16 organisations which had different boards with different orientations which had different set of skills so bringing them together and melting it will probably take a while. The issue of inherent disparities in salaries from different institutions will continue. But I can assure you we have a report on how to harmonise the same. SRC has approved it and we are now looking for resources to implement it. There was concern that the lack of research funding may lead to local researchers looking for jobs in other international research institutes, are there incentives or measures How is the ministry tackling this?I think that this is not correct. People move not necessarily because of funds but for job satisfaction and other reasons. We cannot say we have enough resources at any one time, we will never get to that. But one thing that is important is that we need to also appreciate what happens internationally. Research institutions come up with proposals that attract funding and this is what we want to encourage our scientists and researchers who are brilliant people-to come up with proposals that are bankable.Farmers are investing so much on greenhouses without proper advise. Even though agriculture extension services are devolved, does the national government play any role in ensuring that farmers access them?They have been issues about extension services and even though they were devolved, we all have a responsibility as national and county government because we are actually responsible to the same farmer. We are putting in a lot of effort to provide capacity building and the county governments are still struggling to appreciate some of these devolved functions. I think its a matter of time that we will up to the task. Experts say growing crops without testing soil is a recipe for failure. Does the government provide the service for farmers? If yes, how much and how accessible are the services?These services are also devolved and I think already some counties have procured mobile testing trucks and vehicles and laboratories. We need to test out soils for us to know the ph levels, what kind of fertilisers we require for specific crops/ soils and regions. Similarly what kind of seeds we require and we are encouraging everyone to get involved in this.The coffee, tea, sugarcane and maize sub-sectors have been hijacked by cartels, how are you addressing this?Cartels are in everything, people talk of cartels in coffee, there are cartels in sugar, tea, maize, there are cartels in almost everything. I think what is important is to appreciate that there is a lot of ingenuity among Kenyans. Whenever they see an opportunity they will always run for it and where they see a vacuum or loophole, they want to take advantage of the same. That is why I don t want to condemn them or call them cartels, they are some who are actually genuine businessmen who have seen opportunities.As a government, I would want to call upon our farmers in whatever areas they are in, whether is livestock, fishermen, goats and camel keepers even the farmers in cereals like wheat farmers, to organise themselves into cooperatives, associations and even in companies. So that they can indeed be supported directly by the government and to have bargaining power directly with the individuals who actually buy their produce. That s the only way we can eliminate this issues of cartels.Some sub-sectors like the cotton and the pyrethrum have been slow, what are you doing to revive them and encourage farmers to go back to growing these crops?For pyrethrum, we are working on it, already we have established the Pyrethrum Regulatory arm which has been separated from the financial aspect. Now we are actually establishing a private company called Pyrethrum Company Limited, to deal with the entrepreneurship side. We are also working around the clock to see to it that we start paying the outstanding debts of our farmers in phases. With the support of Karlo and other institutions we are getting them certified seeds. We have opened up an additional 500 acres to plant pyrethrum, and counties like West Pokot are now leading in the production of pyrethrum. In the original counties like Nakuru, Molo we are putting in a lot of effort to see that we revive this industry. This sector was critical for the support of almost two million Kenyans and we are going to do everything possible to revive this.In cotton, we have a laboratory that has been established to do what we call classification of lint and this will give us good prices for our cotton. We are also working to revive Rivertext, Kikomi and we also want to start identifying areas so that farmers can start growing cotton once again. As a government strategy, we want to revive some of these industries including coconut and cashewnuts that died and benefited our people.Most of the peri-urban land within Nairobi and its environs has been taken over by real estate development with farmers uprooting coffee and tea and selling their land for the lucrative venture. Do we have any policies in place to ensure that the fertile and productive land is not lost and also to promote peri-urban farming?We have a challenge and this has been with us for a while now. We are working together with the National Lands Commission, Ministry of Lands and the county government to identify land or zone land specific for industry, agriculture and even probably for conversation. This one requires an inter-ministerial effort and county and national government need to work around this. Where we have got agricultural land, we want to maintain it as that, because by 2050, we are going to have a disaster in this country.We are also saying that as a continuous plan we need to move from rain-fed agriculture. Only 17 per cent of agriculture is arable but 83 per cent is also possible to be irrigated. We are working to see that we can also compensate that land which is now being occupied by manufacturing and other things with additional land for irrigation