Garissa and Embu counties have the best health services in Kenya, an annual assessment by the Health ministry shows.The two beat the other 45 counties because of their latest innovations to improve drugs supply, and for reducing maternal deaths by encouraging more poor women to deliver in health facilities. Garissa was rated the best performing county, while Embu came second. All counties, parastatals and health departments had submitted reports on their best practices to the ministry for the annual performance review. The Ministry of Health has developed criteria for selection of best practices governed by various attributes of the best practice such as its efficiency, cost- effectiveness, community involvement and sustainability, said Health CS Cleopa Mailu on Wednesday. Mailu said Garissa encourages more poor women to give birth in health facilities through the maternal shelters. Mothers from far-flung areas live in these shelters as they await delivery and for more days after giving birth. They also get the 'Mama Kit', which comes with goodies worth Sh300. The county also gives traditional birth attendants and community health extension workers Sh200 for every mother they take to a health facility for delivery. The attendants are present during delivery for moral support while in some occasions, they can assist the skilled worker. Embu county was awarded mainly for its successful WhatsApp County Commodity Committee that ensures all the sub-county health facilities have enough supplies all the time. Innovativeness and inventiveness is underscored in Embu county where the WhatsApp mobile phone application is utilised in pharmaceutical commodity management, the ministry said.Area Governor Martin Wambora said his government has constructed and fully equipped many dispensaries and upgraded health centres throughout the county. "The health of our people is not negotiable. We have made healthcare a key priority. We are also building Kenya's second largest ICU facility after the one at Kenyatta National hospital," he said.Kajiado county took the third position for enhancing healthcare services for mothers and children under-five while the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital was commended for introducing a 24-hour trauma and accidents treatment centre in Eldoret. The other top counties are West Pokot, Kiambu and Kericho. The annual performance review started in 2003, to enhance sustainable economic growth and development. This year the awards focused mainly on best practices in different areas such as health infrastructure, human resources and service delivery in 2015.The programme is funded by the Japan International Co-operation Agency (JICA).