Within the heartlands of Central Kenya, our guide, Inhyock Kim, Minister Counsellor of the South Korean Embassy, is clearly excited as he ushers members of the press to the front row, introducing us to the eager audience. This venue in Kiambu played host last month to a lecture by the president of the concept of Saemaul Undong (SMU), which translates to New Village Movement. The movement was birthed in South Korea and could possibly be the catalyst to lift Kenya s status from a developing country to a First World nation.The Korea SMU Centre president, So Jin Kwang, looks to be a quiet, somewhat timid man, but this impression is quickly dispelled when he begins to speak, passionately expounding the effects of SMU on their economy. As the talk goes on, a key theme he consistently explicates on is the debt trap that many developing countries are under and the burden it will weigh on future generations. You want more help from other countries? It will spoil you and it will spoil your next generations and they will not be able to get out, he said.South Korea The Wonder Child of Economic RecoveryHe then proceeds to tell an almost unbelievable tale about his home country,and he recalls how after the Korean War, the country was one of the world s poorest with an average GDP of $67 dollars per capita in comparison to Kenya s average of $820 per capita in the same span of time - even lower than many African countries a hard-to-believe fact. To boost the economy, President Park Geun-hye s government launched an industrialisation program in the 1970 s which boosted urban growth but rural expansion still lagged behind, thus prompting the introduction of Saemaul Undong. Kenya on the other hand had just gained independence and the economy showed positive growth but later declined after 1974, while under the placard of SMU, Korea s economy continued to grow in leaps and bounds.The introduction of the New Saemaul Undong movement a national movement aimed a reforming the mentality of the larger population in order to achieve an advanced nation has been tagged as the key factor behind the drastic and almost miraculous growth of the South Korean economy. This East Asian country is famous for its dramatic rise from a poor, broken state to a booming, First World nation, all in just one generation, making it now one of the largest economies in the world ( 11th). This begs the question, what role did this revolutionary movement have in this expansion and what lessons can we learn from their experiences?SMU in a NutshellThe KSUC president excitedly begins to expound on the basics about SMU, translating it as New Village Movement underpinned by the notion that the advancement of a country s rural areas is the key to its economic prowess; working to enhance social capital, promote communal projects, alleviate poverty and encourage citizens to embrace a we can do attitude.One of the reasons Saemaul Undong worked, according to So Jin Kwang, is because the villagers themselves mutually decided on collective projects that would benefit them as a society instead of receiving handouts that may not necessarily be relevant to their specific situations. Another key factor was the synchronization of all government ministries on all levels, dispersing officers on the ground to fully back the initiative. Firstly, they provided communities with basic building materials, such as iron bars and cement, as well as the necessary skills required to make use of the equipment.Village elders were elected who then convened over communal meetings, where projects were discussed and decided upon, be it the building of a meeting hall, widening roads, upgrading public toilets and the like. The villagers were tasked with making their project a reality and the top-performing villages were given further funds and materials, encouraging the less active villages to work harder in a spirit of healthy competition. Residents had to work together to raise their own funds as well as donate land and services to receive more governmental help. This model is different from the current top-down approach, where goods and services are simply doled out. By committing their own resources, the participants felt a sense of ownership and worked harder to make their projects a success.The result of this movement was that South Korea managed to steadily grow their economy, lift up the poverty-stricken rural areas and, in turn, urbanise their country, resulting in a highly industrialised country; in comparison to their prior state. SMU is based on three paradigms: self-reliance, diligence and co-operation and the government did not interrupt the decision-making process, the result of which was self-controlled community-based initiatives.SMU Outside of South KoreaThe SMU movement has been accepted by the UN as an efficient rural development model and the Economic Commission of Africa has also chosen it as a base model for poverty alleviation. The paradigm has been introduced in countries outside of South Korea, includingBurundi, Rwanda, Uganda and a number of Asian countries, such as Cambodia. Although the model can be replicated, it would take support from the government, dedication from village elders and, essentially, commitment from participants to make it work.From Donor to Donee Will a Kenyan Version of SMU Work?Up to 47 per cent of Kenyans live in poverty and with a whopping Sh3.2 trillion in debt ( 60 per cent being from foreign lending), our level of debt is the highest in the region. Many African countries face the very same issues, with debt from donor countries contributing to much of their GDP and in turn depriving them of precious natural resources as well as incurring crippling interest payments.Kenya and developing countries in general have a lot to learn from Korea s experiences and communal behaviours that worked to raise the country out of poverty. Kenya is currently is a fix in this regard, with many poverty-stricken citizens stuck in the serikali saidia mentality; constantly waiting for handouts which are often misused or do not end up in the right hands.It will take a complete change of mindset for SMU to be successful in Kenya, and governmental support is key, as stated by an Agriculture Ministry official, Mary Wanjiru, who advised use of a bottom-up approach. The government has been having so many projects, bringing them down to the people, but because it is coming from the government, the people don t own it, so I also propose we start from the bottom up, let the villagers come together, they decide what they want, then the government will come in, she said.The lecture ended on a high note, with a notable buzz of whispers and comments in the air. So Jin Kwang was honoured with a traditional Masai blanket and ordained as a village elder and the smile on his face said it all. The project has two model villages which are currently in the process of implementing SMU. So Jin Kwang s vision for Kenya, and Africa as a whole, is to transform our nations from states that rely on foreign aid and donations, and instead become a donor countries a dream come true for all citizens.