A 42-year-old man is admitted at the Gatundu Level 4 Hospital after an assistant chief allegedly crushed his testicles for refusing to sell sweet potato vines to him at a throwaway price.Speaking from his hospital bed on Sunday, Thomas Gaiti said he lost one of his testicles after the ordeal. He told the Star he was preparing supper on Wednesday last week at 7.30pm in his Karembu home with his child.Then assistant chief Stephen Munene, his son and an AP officer entered his house and said they were looking for bhang, he said.He said the trio ransacked the house, scattering documents. Gaiti said they stole Sh8,000 from him. He said Munene and his son beat him up with whips and kicked him in his private parts, until he was unconscious.Gaiti said they arrested him and using Munene s vehicle, they drove him to Kinare Forest in Kiganjo. He said they were about to dump him in the forest, but the AP officer said it was risky as witnesses, including his mother Mary Njeri and son had seen them take him from the house.Gaiti said they took him to Gatundu police station, but the officers on duty declined to book him, as he was in pain. He said the officers told the trio to take him to the hospital. He was taken to Gatundu Level 4 Hospital on Wednesday, where he was treated and discharged. On Thursday, he was taken to court and he told the magistrate he was in pain. The magistrate ordered he be taken to hospital. He was treated and discharged once again. On Friday, he was admitted for a third time.Gaiti said on Saturday, he underwent surgery and one of his testicles was removed. He said he has recorded a statement with police.Gaiti said his problem with Munene started when he refused to sell sweet potato vines to the administrator at Sh1,000 for two pick-up truck loads.Munene has denied the allegations. He said he arrested Gaiti and booked him at Gatundu police station and is surprised he is now being accused of assault. Munene also denied he used his personal vehicle to take Gaiti to the police station. He said Gaiti is a known drug dealer. Gatundu police boss Bernard Muli said they are investigating.