Parents of students sponsored by the government to join the United States International University are shocked after they were asked to pay Sh101,000 fees per semester.President Uhuru Kenyatta announced recently that for the first time the government will use Sh700 million to sponsor 10,000 students to private universities.The number has since increased to 12,096 students after the Kenya Universities and Colleges Central Placement Service lowered the cut-off points for government sponsorship to 29 private universities by two points.The lowered cut-off points stands at a mean grade of B of 56 and 57 points for girls and 58 and 59 points for boys. The initial cut-off points for degree programmes was a B of 60 points for male candidates and B- of 58 points for female candidates.More than 20 USIU parents have complained to KUCCPS concerning the high fees. USIU admitted 221 government-sponsored students out of the 12,096. It is only at USIU that we are faced with this exorbitant fees. No other private university is charging more than what the government recommended, a parent who sought anonymity said.Under the programme, the government pays Sh86,000 per student while the students pay Sh16,800. All in one year.The parents said they are unable to pay Sh101,000 per semester in a tri-semester.This means a parent will pay Sh217,000 after the government subsidy of Sh86,000.USIU did not respond on the matter.The Kenya Association of Private Universities chairman Mumo Kisau said he had written to all vice chancellors in private universities to treat any extra amount in their fees structures as a scholarship. This is what we agreed as universities when we asked the government to sponsor students in our universities, he said.Kisau added that there could be other items such as accommodation, computers, and registration that the government is not paying for, but items that fall under tuition should be viewed as a scholarship to settle books of accounts.Kisau, a VC for Scott Christian University, said private universities should not charge the Sh86,000 or any other extra amount as tuition in the first year. Next year there will be no problem. The government will fund universities as per the requirements of the academic programmes- DUC, he said.The Differentiated Unit Cost will give more cash to science programmes as compared to arts subjects, he said.Commission for University Education CEO David Some said what is happening at USIU should not be allowed. USIU and other private universities with doubts should submit their returns to government indicating the number of students admitted, he said.Some added that the government will thereafter pay to universities in a capitation of 12 months.