Postmortems on the bodies of three suspected terrorists killed in Mombasa were cancelled on Friday as there were no directions from lawyers.Muhuri and KNCHR had insisted that the exercise be conducted but the family of two of the slain girls seemed to have pulled out of the agreement. Government pathologist Johansen Oduor said the exercise could not be conducted pending the arrival of family members and agreements by lawyers. &quot;We will put the bodies on hold until we receive further directions from the lawyers,&quot; Oduor told the Star. He added they cannot be&nbsp;buried&nbsp;until legal interpretation of an affidavit, signed by a man claiming to be the girls&#39; father, is received. Abdirahman Hussein, the father of the two girls, said in the affidavit that it was against Muslim faith to carry out a postmortem. &quot;I wish to have my late daughters buried without a postmortem operation. I will not hold any person or authority accoutnable by reason of my decision...&quot; he said.Read:&nbsp; Mombasa Police station attackers&#39; family want corpses released for burial Also read: Second man claims to be father of two slain Mombasa terror suspects The lawyers eventually reached an agreement but there was a claim that all the eight bullets fired at one of the suspects exited. But the human rights groups said a case of suspected extrajudicial killings cannot be sustained without a single bullet. They maintained their claim of a cover up by police, as narrations of what transpired have been questioned. [VIDEO] Cops accused of killing three &#39;innocent&#39; girls at Mombasa Central police station The examinations were postponed indefinitely on September 11, when the attack took place at Central police station. Reports indicated the government had not facilitated forensic experts from Nairobi to carry out the autopsy.Oduor told the Star that transport logistics also delayed the autopsies that were to be carried out this week .The bodies of Maimuna and Ramla Abdirahman and Tasnim Yakubu are still lying at Coast Provincial General Hospital almost two weeks since the attack.More on this:&nbsp;Autopsies of three slain women delayed amid talk of set up&nbsp;