Euro 2016 is just around the corner and countries have selected their final squads for the tournament. Several teams are looking pretty good but I naturally want to dwell on where the controversy is; England! All the hullabaloo since Roy Hodgson picked his squad has been about leaving Danny Drinkwater out of his squad.While I totally agree that Drinkwater more than earned a call up given his stellar showing for Leicester this season; there are two sides to every coin. A fan of The Score Kenya on the facebook group literally summed up part of what I was thinking when he wrote: Where has Drinkwater been for the last seven years of his career? I think it would have been unwise for Hodgson to pick him because there is no proof that he will perform at the Euros. To paraphrase a bit he said if Drinkwater was young like Dele Ali or Marcus Rashford; he should have been considered because it would have show promise; but the fact that he is 26 is evidence that he may no be able to deliver on the big stage. He went on to say that Drinkwater needed to prove himself over another season and on a bigger stage than the EPL; the Champions League for example; before being considered for a big international tournament. He actually summed it up by saying he would be the first to shut up if Drinkwater goes on to have another great season. I partly agree with him because national team Managers always have their style of play of which the players they select must fit in. It isn t always about the in formplayers; but the players who can turn up for big games and who match up to the manager s style.The Galaticos of the early century was a great example of a group of in form star players who couldn t play as a team; while Leicester was the perfect example of a great team without superstar players. Had Claudio Ranieri been given an open cheque book at the start of the season; you need to ask yourselves whether he would have selected the players who won the league for him.It isn t always about the best players because football is a team sport; it s about the best team. I also agree with the guy who said had Jack Wilshere not been an Arsenal player; the discussion would not have been so bitter.Yes Wilshere was injured for much of the season but he has always delivered for England. I wonder why the critics aren t asking why Adam Lallana was picked ahead of Drinkwater.No-body knows how the Euros will go; which players will shine and which ones will flop; but we do need to realize that we are just fans and critics; and whether we like it or not; the Managers will do what they think is best! Talk to me on @CarolRadull on twitter or www.facebook.com/CarolRadull