The presence of stateless people in Kenya can be traced back to 1936, according to Makonde chairman in Kwale, Thomas Nguli. Since Monday, he has been leading about 1,000 people in a walk to meet President Uhuru Kenyatta in Nairobi today, on behalf of what he says are as many as 10,000 stateless people in the Coast.The Makonde community from Mozambique, Pemba community from Tanzania, Rwandese from Rwanda and Burundi have stayed in Kwale and some other parts of the Coast region for decades, without being given citizenship.Nguli said their parents came to Kenya after being recruited by European agents to work at their sisal and sugar plantations in Kilifi, Kwale and Taita counties. When they came here, no one went back. Instead, they intermarried and gave birth to us, and that is why we could not be identified as Kenyans, Mozambican or Tanzania citizens. When (former President) Moi said foreigners should not take over jobs supposed to be done by Kenyans, our parents retreated to villages and started buying land to do farming, he added.Nguli said despite most of their parents having bought land in the Coastal region, they have no documents to claim ownership due to lack of national identity cards. Most of the stateless people, especially Makonde youths, specialise in carving sculptures, while the elders work in Kenyans farms to earn a living.Since 1987, Baraka Juma has been working as a shamba boy, after the then Ramisi Sugar Company was closed where they were being paid Sh6 per day. Today we earn Sh2,500 per month by working at Kenyans farms because we cannot get government jobs, he said.Amina Kassim said that to feed their families, they rely on washing clothes for Kenyans because they cannot get employed in organisations and companies around due to lack of IDs.Children given away Most of us are forced to give our children to Kenyans to help them to get birth certificates and IDs. They become their children and, supposing they decide to remain with them, we cannot dispute it, because we have nowhere to claim them, she said.Amina said sometimes they get hotel jobs, but eventually end up giving them to locals because they cannot be allowed to work without IDs. I gave birth to several children with a local in Kwale and he divorced me. I left with nothing because I have no legal documents to show I own anything, she said.Nguli said the government discriminates against them when distributing relief food. They identify us as stateless people because we don t have citizenship and we end up going home empty handed, he said.Nguli said they want to be included in developing the country since they were born here and have nowhere else to call home.Domiano Gasias, 46, a father of four who carves sculptures to provide for his family, said they are exploited by middle men because they lack IDs to get out of their working place and sell the products to tourists along the beach.Domiano mainly uses mango and neem trees for his sculptures, with the smallest sold at Sh100, medium at Sh300, large at between Sh500 and Sh600, while extra-large goes for Sh1,000.Bibo Nyambani, 52, also a Makonde, said they continue with carving as they have no option. Once we get Kenyan nationality, it will help us sell our items directly to the buyers. But for now, we can t go outside. We fear being arrested since there are no documents to prove our nationality, he said.From 1977, Sipirian Shimunda, 55, came from Rwanda to work at Ramisi Sugar Company, while he was 20 years old. He opted not to go back after the 1994 genocide. I don t know if I will find my family there. And furthermore, I am married and have two children in Kenya. A 78-year-old Mazera said he came to Kenya before Jomo Kenyatta became President. He wonders why he is still being referred to as a foreigner . It is not fair. We have done a lot for the country and stayed here for decades, he said.PetitionThe cry of stateless people in Kwale to get IDs was heard by the county Legal and Justice Assembly Committee, chaired by Omar Boga. The committee wrote a petition to Uhuru through the Senate in September 2014.The President instructed the area registrar of persons in January 2015 to start identifying the stateless people in preparation for registration.About 1,570 stateless people were identified in Kwale alone, with the government estimating that there are about 3,000 to 4,000, although Nguli maintains they are more than 10,000. They mostly live in Kanana, Kinondo, Lunga Lunga, Mwangwei and Vanga areas.Boga said once the stateless people are registered, they can access loans, participate in development and take part in next year s elections. We have grown in the hands of most of the stateless people and now we are leaders. It is very unfortunate that they are referred to as foreigners instead of being given citizenship. We will do what is possible as a county assembly to ensure they are assisted by the state. he said.The national government was supposed to give stateless people citizenship by the end of August this year, according to the Citizenship and Immigration Act, 2011, but it is yet to register even a single person , according to activists.The communities and human rights groups are now calling on the government to facilitate their registration. Kenya Human Right Commission executive director George Kegoro said that trekking to State House is the only way to ensure the stateless people get justice after a long struggle without the government giving them an ear.KHRC programme manager Diana Gichengo said the government has not registered anyone, despite its promises. It is disheartening that stateless persons cannot go to defend themselves in court. We want the President to intervene and give direction over the matter, she said.Attempts to stop the marchThe over 1,000 people left Kwale on Monday accompanied by activists from Haki Centre, Huria, Hurinet, Kenya National Human Rights Commission, KHRC, Muhuri and Sauti ya Wanawake.Coast regional coordinator Nelson Marwa tried to stop them, saying their issues are being addressed and therefore they have no reasons to walk. He said an agreement about the stateless people has been drafted and will be presented before a Cabinet meeting next week for ratification. The coordinator asked them to call off the walk and requested a meeting at Kombani on Monday.However, the group refused to wait for the coordinator. They were stopped by heavily armed police at Maganyakulo and Waa as they headed to Mombasa.Nguli said nothing will stop them from going to Nairobi and meet the President, since the regional officials have never helped them in their bid to get citizenship. I don t know why Marwa is coming to us now and he has been in the Coast region for a long time, he said. We have decided to see the President ourselves so we can tell him our agony. If we cannot be given citizenship, it is better the Kenya government get rid of us, he added.Kwale deputy county commissioner Mwangi Kahiro said the government is keen to register the stateless people. He blamed the delay on problems with the Mozambique embassy that he said need to be addressed first. The period for registering the stateless people, which ended in August, has been extended by three years, according to a directive from Interior CS Joseph Inkaserry, Kahiro said.Katiba Mkungu, chairperson of Kwale Community Anti-Drugs Coalition, said if the President will not listen to them, they will petition international courts until justice is done.Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya said his administration is supporting the stateless people to ensure they get citizenship through the relevant institutions. My office recognises the struggle these people are going through, and that is why we even supported the process to have them registered as Kenyans, he said.The governor praised members of the community for having remained peaceful and coexisting with other communities, as they continue with their struggle. I would like to urge the people of Kwale and other Kenyans to support members of this community for peaceful coexistence, and my office will do the same where necessary, he said.