 To the extent that the amendment compelled the JSC to send three names, the said amendment is null and void . With these words, the High Court asserted the supremacy of the Constitution of Kenya, and offered all Kenyans a reminder that there is a reason why a good constitution has at its core a separation of powers, as well as checks and balances. Many political commentators had for some months now been emphasizing, over and over again, that the country was heading for the precipice . By this they meant that we had a general election coming up in just over a year, and yet there was an all-time lack of confidence in two key institutions that are so crucial for ensuring that we have a peaceful outcome in that election. First was the IEBC, which had been severely tainted by the ChickenGate scandal. And second was the Judiciary, beset by the shocking accusations made against Justice Philip Tonui. He was accused of accepting a massive bribe of some Sh200 million, in return for influencing a decision in favour of the Governor of Nairobi. So on the one hand was this compromising allegation that the IEBC had within it, corrupt public officers who actively sought bribes - and this was reinforced by the fact that the directors of the British printing firm alleged to have given these bribes had already been successfully prosecuted in the UK. Then there was the suggestion that the honourable judges of the Supreme Court might also be willing to accept bribes and subsequently hand down judgments favourable to those who had given this money. So serious was this accusation that, even now, Justice Tonui remains suspended from the Bench, while there is a tribunal investigating these accusations. It is to be taken for granted that any president would like to see his own nominees ascend to high office, whenever possible. Not necessarily with a view to influencing that nominee in any inappropriate manner, but because anyone who seeks political office loves power, and the power to appoint is perhaps one of the most pleasant to exercise. Yet here is a judgment of the High Court, following a challenge raised by the Law Society of Kenya, denying the President the power he seemed to have been granted by a constitutional amendment passed by Parliament. What the judgment established was that Parliament had acted in contravention of the Constitution of Kenya.