As the Nairobi county secretary, Robert Ayisi is in charge of approval for procurement and expenditure. He's the secretary of the county executive committee, which is the highest decision-making organ of the county executive and is chaired by Governor Evans Kidero.In an interview with the Star, the county secretary discussed improving service delivery through culture change, the impact of the TICAD conference and the demolition of illegal structures. The county has been undertaking a culture change programme. Has it taken root and are the county staff embracing it?Ayisi: The idea was mooted because of what was perceived as a bad culture. It was then called Kanjo culture, the now-defunct city council. So we came up with the idea that the staff had to change their culture and it was to include everybody, starting from the governor, deputy governor, county secretary, executives, chief officers, up to the directors. The process includes team building and the theme of the culture change and where to start, how to do it, timelines and what we were supposed to achieve. Then after which we wanted to bring it down to lower levels, up to lowest person in the county hierarchy.The second team we'll take for culture change will be city inspectorate officers. These are the first people Nairobians encounter and interact with on a daily basis. We want to end this culture that city askaris are brutal. We want to enhance their training and build their capacity to improve friendliness to residents as they do their work.Health workers will also be covered. We want them to change the way they handle mothers or children or accident victims. They way they handle patients should be something appealing, because treatment is just 10 per cent; 90 per cent is how the health worker handles a patient. The other group is people who deal with our markets, our schools, our roads. Everybody who is handling a Nairobian must be taken through the programme. When the county staff undergoes the culture, we also expect Nairobians to do the same so that they change their perception of county workers.Is the strategic plan being implemented? How is its implementation affecting service delivery to Nairobi residents?A: It is a strategic and business plan for 2015-2025. We wanted to run over so that if one government goes then the other takes over and carries on with the implementation. We are yet to launch it but we have already started implementing it. Whatever we are doing right now, in terms of projects, programmes and key initiatives, is aligned to the plan. So all our targets for the year 2016-17 has been drawn from the 10-year plan.TICAD conference ended the other week. Did the county learn anything from the Japanese during the summit? Was any meaningful partnership formed? Are we likely to see any any changes, especially with the way solid waste is managed in the city?A: We learnt and gained a lot from TICAD. First, it ploughed Sh25 billion into our economy. Kenya showcased its solid waste management in our collaboration with JICA [Japan International Co-operation Agency]. We showed what we are doing at Dandora dumpsite, and the new landfill compactor we bought at Sh350 million, having increased our garbage trucks from 13 in 2013 to 60 now. We agreed to have another discussion with the Japanese government to see how we collaborate further to manage solid waste. The county recently commenced the demolition of illegal structures in estates. Why is it that the county is only concentrating in Eastland areas? Why not upmarket areas, and yet there are illegal structures all over the city?A: It is not only in Eastlands. We are starting in Eastlands because that is where the majority of illegal structures are. We have descended on illegal structures and car washes in Kilimani, Kileleshwa Two weeks ago we were in Karen. So this is happening in all areas. We are moving to Muthaiga, Lavington and any other areas where there are illegal structures and car washes.Demolition of unsafe buildings seems to have stalled. What is happening?A: We started demolishing marked houses, which we are going on with. We are still doing it but you know there is always a drawback when you want to do enforcement. When somebody goes and obtains a court order, it limits you from carrying out the demolitions.But the county went ahead it and enacted a law, the Nairobi County Regularisation Bill, which gives the owners of unapproved buildings a window to regularise them. We have already put up a secretariat at our facility in Lady Northey and launched a campaign. We have advertised it in the papers an other media and we are encouraging Nairobians to come and regularise what they have done. We will audit their buildings and if we find that everything is fine, building is sound structurally and the plans are okay, then we will approve it and issue occupation licence.