Wiper party will hold it's rally at Tononoka grounds tomorrow, party leader Kalonzo Musyoka announced on Saturday in Mombasa. Speaking in Changamwe, the Cord co-principal dispelled rumors that Cord will disintegrate before next year's election. Kalonzo attacked Jubilee for enslaving Kenyans, overseeing massive loot of public properties and burdening citizens with high taxes, mostly on essential commodities.Senators Johnston Muthama (Machakos), Hassan Omar (Mombasa) and Mutula Kilonzo (Makueni), MP Jessica Mbalu (Kibwezi), Nairobi Deputy Governor Jonathan Mueke and his Machokos counterpart Bernard Kialai were among those present in today's rallies. He said the journey to liberate Kenyans from the hands of oppressors has started in earnest and adding that Cord will remove Jubilee from power next year. Wiper s nationwide popularization rally has started three weeks after ODM s. Kalonzo said Cord, under his tutelage will form the next government if only IEBC's top organ is overhauled."The electoral body has always been biased in favor of the government and they could not be entrusted with next general election. A poll billed as a do or die for Raila Odinga." Kalonzo said. The opposition claims that Treasury's delay to release the exit package for nine IEBC s commissioners was a wider scheme by Jubilee to force the embattled commissioners in office to oversee next year's poll or to manipulate the system before leaving.He added that plans have been put in place to curb rigging. We will not complain that our votes have been stolen. We are not going to wait to be robbed off our glory. We shall go full blast, he said.Wiper Treasurer Hezron Awiti urged supporters to register as voters in the upcoming mass voter registrations exercise. With great numbers will be able to win the presidency, Awiti, also Nyali MP added. The former vice president said Cord top organ is consulting widely before it picks the best candidate. Kalonzo exuded confidence that he will carry the mantle.READ: Raila to 'battle fairly' for Cord presidential ticketRaila Odinga (ODM) and Moses Wetangula (Ford Kenya) wants to bear the presidential responsibility.He said each affiliate party in Cord is working towards uniting their outfits which will translate into a united, stronger and unbeatable coalition. Jubilee Party was conceived on September 10th after 13 parties dissolved to form the party Kalonzo dared those who defected from his party to officially resign and pave way for the by-elections.