Gor Mahia chairman Ambrose Rachier has assured club supporters that they will comply in time with the club licensing rules, and will retain the SportPesa Premier League title that seems to be far from their grasp at the moment with four points behind Tusker.On club licensing, Rachier said his office was working round the clock to ensure the minimum requirements are met before the Confederation of African Football deadline of October 31. We shall actually beat the deadline. We are working very hard to ensure we comply with the local Sports Act as well as the CAF club licensing requirements. Most of the required documents are already in place and the biggest headache for us right now is to ensure a new constitution is passed and adopted by members, Rachier said on the KPL official portal. Already, we have come up with an amended draft constitution which will be scrutinized by members of the club on Sunday. We hope to debate it successfully and have members approve it, he added. Only clubs that have complied with CAF s club licensing requirements will be eligible to participate in continental competitions.Gor, however, are yet to submit the required documents for licensing to Football Kenya Federation even as the October 10 deadline set by the local body draws to a close.On the league title race, Rachier said: You know this team is made of winners. We are second on the table and the difference in points between ourselves and Tusker is not so much. It means that the title is well within our reach and I can say without fear that we shall retain the trophy. We expect to take part in the CAF Champions League next year and already there are plans to beef up certain areas of the squad so that we can compete well in that tournament as well as the Cecafa Club Championship, he said.Gor have five games to close down a four-point gap between them and league leaders Tusker. At the same time, Rachier while speaking on the club official website, gave a clear word on what s happening at the club, when the elections will be held and also defended the delay in passing a new constitution in a press statement at the club s secretariat. I wish to point out that having subjected the amended draft constitution to the scrutiny of the representative of the people, the EC shall in conformity with the current registered constitution of the club issue a substantive notice to convene an SGM. He stated that branch chairmen will discuss with the constitution experts and agree on what s good for the club after which the same set of individuals will come up with a specific date for elections to be held in December.