An NGO-based sacco is undertaking an aggressive capital-raising programme to strengthen its financial position as it prepares to diversify into savings and deposit-taking services.Kimisitu sacco formed in March 1985 by a group of staff from International Centre for Research in Agroforestry, plans to launch Front Office Services Activity next year. The sacco is a national savings and credit society whose members are drawn from Non-Governmental Organisations, embassies and international missions.Chief executive Peter Kariuki said the sacco is seeking to increase its core capital to 10 per cent of its assets from the current 8.6 per cent. The institutional capital reserves, which are at six per cent, will also go up to eight per cent, a requirement for anyone seeking to operate front office services, he said. We are growing the core share capital by 5,000 every year per member for the next five years. We also have members who are willing to pay Sh30,000 once. We are hoping by 2017 we will be able to roll out front office services, Kariuki said.The country has in the last decade witnessed transformation of savings and credit societies into Fosas.Fosas were introduced when banking services were out of reach for the middle and low-income earners, due to the high account maintenance commission and minimum account balance. The service allows sacco members to open accounts with their savings societies and operate them like in a normal bank setting.Kariuki said saccos are likely to reap big from the new banking law, which is likely to lock out many clients from getting credit in banks, as they will be viewed as high risk borrowers who now face more obstacles in getting loans. We expect a lot of people to come back to saccos for saving and credit. We are open to any reputable organisation. So long as you have three employees and above, you can join us, Kariuki said.Kimisitu, which has 7,000 members, also plans to tap into the diaspora market, he said, owing to the growing appetite for investing in Kenya. It hopes to build a new office block in Nairobi s upmarket Kilimani area. The proposed development will cost an estimated Sh200 million.