The people of Shikulu market, Mumias, are sickly. Admittedly, economic life in the Mumias sugar belt is dead. As the factory totters on collapse, so does the downturn in the people s lives plummet. On the way to Shikulu, many shops are closed. The open ones have very little or no stock, mostly firewood logs. Parts of farmland have young shoots of maize. The rest is under cane cultivation. There seems to be a gentleman s agreement between Jubilee and Cord to cover up mismanagement of the Mumias Sugar Factory. The ANC government will open factory books, expose and punish those who ravaged the factory. It will not matter who you are friend or foe, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi said in Mumias on Sunday.Yet the silence of most political leaders in the region on Mumias is eerily suspect. Anecdotes abound about who is who in the rundown of Mumias. The most prominent are former and current MPs and MCAs from the region whose loyalty was bought by payments for supplying air. That s why whenever the cane matter is raised, their voices are muted amidst popular claims of being compromised. This nags the conscience that if truth were told, the Mumias Factory initial cannibalising was done by the local leadership with the collusion of management. Unfortunately, until the truth is told, Mumias will go through the usual musical chairs into oblivion.Mumias is unique. Unlike sister factories, it s a private firm where the government is a shareholder. It is, therefore, not up for privatisation. But given the meddlesome manner the government and local elite played in ruining the sugar factories, one shudders when demands are made for controlling shares to be allocated to the county governments. However, there is no gainsaying the livelihoods here the dependent on the fortunes of a thriving sugar industry. Unfortunately, the people are exhibits of economic meltdown given their haggard look. Introduction of cane farming made the region a net importer of food. Without earnings from the factory, food deficiency has set in. The government pumped Sh2 billion into the Mumias Sugar Factory to resuscitate it. The factory machines are roaring but farmers remain a sorry lot.The Sh2 billion was to settle debts owed to farmers. It s, however, never that simple. Crooked farmers delivery records are a source of their misery. The implication of debt recovery (or DR) on farmers payslips is agony to both the factory and the farmers. DR arises from factory farm inputs to owners of land who became contract farmers.However, farmers payslips records are obsolete and faked by former managers to steal from them and the factory. The records are not a true reflection of what the factory lent and the amounts of cane delivered. The discrepancy between DR and farmers delivery amounts to slave labour. Very few farmers have takeaway balance.Consequently, the factory is not receiving cane as farmers intuitively divert the harvest to circumvent DR. Farmers are selling at a throwaway price to middlemen which at least, ensures ends meet.Mumias calls it cane poaching, but the factory is a victim of its own systems because its outgrower system fell prey to tailor-made fleecing.