Adan Kabelo is lucky to have passed the test of negotiated democracy' to run for political office back in Isiolo county.His Karayu clan of the larger Borana community has identified him as the right man to take on Governor Godana Doyo at the 2017 election.But he has to face several aspirants from other clans in the inter-clan nominations to be held later in the year. My clan is the largest in the Borana community and after the endorsement of the elders I have the upper hand over the others, Kabelo explains.Negotiated democracy has gained traction after elders in Mandera county asked all elected leaders not to seek reelection in 2017.But Kabelo is in full support of the concept. Negotiated democracy is a traditional mechanism, he says, explaining his support of a system that is fast becoming the norm in northern Kenya. It has been practised for many years because it is a way of avoiding conflicts. It is usually done with fairness. But it has not been a bed of roses for the 48-year-old NGO executive. At form two, he lost both his parents in a span of a week and almost gave up on life. It was too much for me at that time. My school fees had not been paid. He was a bright student and one of his teachers, an American, sympathised and cleared this fees up to form four.For his forms 5 and 6, he had to beg from well-wishers.It is this hard experience following his parents death that partly informs the decision to run for political office."I feel more children can go to school, access healthcare if I am at the helm. I don't want children to experience what I went through," he says.He believes that the leadership experience plus resources he has gathered are enough to turnaround the fortunes of the people of Isiolo, who have languished in poverty for decades. We need a serious, humble and development-minded leadership in Isiolo to raise the hopes and aspirations of the people, who have been marginalised for more than 50 years, he says.More than 70 per cent of the residents live below the poverty line and cannot afford the basic necessities of life, and Kabelo regrets that current leaders do not care.He laments that the county lags behind because of vision-less leaders who play the game of sycophancy at the expense of development and professionalism.1968: Born in Sericho village, Isiolo county1973: Joined Modogash Primary School, where he sat his CPE in 19811982: Garbatula High School, did his O-level exams in 19851986: Njiiri s High School, Murang'a, where he sat his A-levels in 19871988: Kenyatta University, graduated with Bachelor of Education degree in 19912010: University of Nairobi, Master of Arts degree in Development Studies1992:Action Aid Kenya, head of Education2011: Oxfam in Somalia2013: Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition (GAIN) in 2011-2016Quotes2014: Last night a few of us met to plan how to relive the big Garba Tula School family, to laugh, cry, chat and eat together. Save this date to meet your classmate or schoolmate you have never seen since. It s not about anything but reconnecting the great sons and daughters of this great place that was once a home to all of us. Though the school is now down, we are up and alive. We are still proud of the contribution this school made to our lives. 2016: I will run this county even away from the budget from the national government because this area is very attractive to donors. I will bring a lot of donors because I have worked and interacted with them. 2016: "A lot of opportunities are not tapped. We have a rich culture, tourist attraction sites, we have a whole livestock sector that needs to be developed and marketed. Some economies like Somalia and Botswana depend on livestock. So if we effectively manage it, livestock, as a sector, we can create a lot of opportunities for our people."