Kenya Sevens series champions Homeboyz will be chasing their fourth tournament win at the Christie Sevens tournament at the RFUEA ground today.The deejays have won three of the five tournaments and amassed 105 points, 19 clear of second placed Quins. Head coach Simon Odongo said the Boyz will not rest on their laurels."The boys are in high spirits. It's been a good season so far and we can make it better by winning our fourth tournament of the circuit, Odongo added.He has drafted international Augustine Lugonzo and recalled Jeff Olouch to bolster the side who play in pool "A" against Nakuru, Blak Blad and Stormers.KCB who were runners up at the Nanyuki Sevens last weekend lead the chase in pool "B" which also has Kabras, Catholic Monks and Ugandan outfit Kobs. Their performance in Nanyuki was their best of the season after plate victories in the four tournaments. The bankers have made two changes as Arthur Ochieng and Isaac Njoroge return with newly signed Martin Owila and Ken Moseti sitting out. The bankers will be boosted by the presence of Kenya Sevens skipper Andrew Amonde. Amonde was Most Valuable Player (MVP) in Nanyuki. Coach and former international Dennis Mwanja is confident of a good outing after losing 10-0 to Homeboyz in the final last weekend. We want to win the Christies, we ve played all the teams, all those that have made it to the quarters are good enough but we ve now got our combination righ."Third seeded Resolution Impala Saracens have a date with Strathmore Leos, Menengai Oliers and Nondies in a tricky pool "C" . Impala coach Nick Abok expects competitive matches against all three teams."It will be a tough day one because all the teams we are facing are competitive and the nature of Sevens throws surprises. The Sarries have made five changes for the weekend with Former Kenya U19 captain Tyson Okoth making a return alongside Ian Mabwa and Jeremy Mwamba, Mark Kwemoi and Steve Shamiah Hosts Quins face off with Mwamba, Mean Machine and Daystar in pool "D" . Quins will be hoping to finish the season with a flourish after getting knocked out by Impala 33-13 in the Main Cup quarterfinals last weekend. They have added firepower to their roster drafting in internationals Willy Ambaka and Frank Wanyama. Skipper Felix Ayange said he is confident of bagging the tournament in front of their fans."Things did not go according to plan in Nanyuki but we want to to go flat out on home turf and win our tournament, he added.