Nairobi governor Evans Kidero and his deputy Jonathan Mueke on Friday met Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka at his Karen home.The deliberations were to craft a strategy for next year's parliamentary and county assembly nominations.The leaders discussed a working formular of ensuring ODM and Wiper Democratic Movement-Kenya party do not compete during the elections to avoid dividing supporters and give victory to competitors."We wanted to tell him (Kalonzo) that we must remain united. We must field a single candidate in every elective zone. We are seeking his support in ensuring the unity of the coalition remains," Mueke told the Star on phone.ODM's Kidero and Wiper's Mueke are senior most party leaders in their respective parties in Nairobi. The two were irked by Mombasa governor Ali Joho's declarations that Cord will prefer "six peace" elections. Joho is the ODM deputy party leader and it is not clear whether he meant six piece for ODM or Cord."Joho said we should have a "six piece" what about the other parties and their members? We moved fast before it goes too far," he said."Cord has two main parties ODM and Wiper which has more than two million supporters. If you lose these two million what will you win with?" Mueke said. Read: Raila backs Kalonzo in push for joint Cord nominations The deputy governor said they were also expressing their support for Kalonzo's calls to make Cord a single party.The hope of the people behind the plot is that it will foster unity within the political outfit and end rivalry that could weaken it.A Kidero's aide, who accompanied them to the meeting, said financing of party campaigns was also discussed.WDM-K plans to clinch seven parliamentary and 24 ward seats in Nairobi during the 2017 general elections.But most of the seats are held by ODM. Wiper party's insiders have said that Cord lost most of the elective seats because of fielding more than one candidates and unpopular ones. Read: Cord ready to receive Jubilee rebels, says Kalonzo WDM-K party has mapped out its strongholds in Nairobi where it is seeking ODM's support to capture the seats. However, most of elective seats in such zones are held by their ODM counterparts, a situation which is likely to cause political competition.The strongholds are in the four Embakasi constituencies; Embakasi South held by Ishrad Sumra of ODM and Embakasi East held by John Omondi. The Wiper party is also eyeing Embakasi West and Embakasi Central held by George Theuri and John Ndiragu respectively.Other constituencies the Wiper party wants to take are Makadara, Lang'ata and Mathare.The party wants to field Joshua Kitivi and nominated senator Judith Sinjeny for the Makadara and Lang'ata parliamentary seats respectively.Read: Wiper pushes for Kalonzo to fly Cord presidential flag Ngei ward rep Dan Mutiso is likely to be fronted for Mathare parliamentary seat held by Stephen Kariuki who has ditched ODM for Jubilee.Lang'ata seat is held by ODM's Joash Olum while Kitivi will be facing off Benson Mutura, who was elected on dissolved TNA party, for the Makadara seat.Wiper's Fred Musau, Roy Kivusyu and Musili Mawathe will be contesting Embakasi East, Embakasi West and Embakasi South parliamentary seats respectively.Wiper also aims at retaining the Mukuru kwa Njenga and Laini Saba MCA seats held by Alexander Mutisya and David Kitavi respectively and get 22 others.ODM is seeking Wiper's support to retain the Dagoretti North, Westlands, Kibra and Ruaraka held by Simba Arati, Tim Wanyonyi, Ken Okoth and TJ Kajwang' respectively.