Alexander III, better known as Alexander the Great, was the son of King Phillip II. King Phillip was a legend. He had established Macedonia and made it a great military power. When Alexander took over as King, his primary concern was what glory will be left for me? This desire to surpass the successes of his father led him to embark on a military campaign that took him across Persia, Asia, Syria and Egypt all the way to what is now Iraq.In eight years Alexander led his army across 11,000 miles and founded over 70 cities, creating an empire that stretched across three continents and covered around two million square miles. He became King at 20 and died aged 32. He did not lose a single battle. In a decade Alexander single-handedly changed the nature of the ancient world, and established his own legend.Uhuru Kenyatta reminds me of Alexander.Uhuru grew up watching his father lead a country that was forming into a sovereign state. He watched as his father s stature grew from that of a mere man into an international legend. Jomo Kenyatta is one of those brands that is known literally everywhere in the world.When Uhuru was approached to run for President, he must have been extremely reluctant. I suspect he understood more than most that when you are the son of a great man you are never judged fairly. Your achievements must be legendary too or history will judge you a failure, no matter how extraordinary what you did when alive was.When Uhuru became President he most probably had two distinct objectives. The first one was to extricate himself and the Deputy President from the ICC accusations. As President he had an international platform to force the world to listen to him as he articulated why the ICC process was not going to help Kenya move forward. He did that in a way the world will never forget.The second objective was driven by the understanding that to whom much is given, much is expected. Uhuru wanted to embark on a legacy project that will entrench his place in history. Uhuru just had one problem: He needed to identify a project that was so distinct it would move him out from the shadow of his great father (and his predecessor and godfather Mwai Kibaki).Listening to his speech on Saturday as he launched JP, I realised what that project is. The party we launch here today is an expression of our unity, our oneness, and our togetherness. In launching it, we renew, and we strengthen, the ties that bind Kenyans together. We rise from the ashes of conflict to express the beauty of reconciliation and collective purpose Jubilee is about the appreciation that we must celebrate the diversity of our 42 million Kenyans by working together as different communities to build on those things that we share in common, as opposed to fighting about the issues that make each of us unique .Those who know Uhuru well know that he means it. He genuinely intends to transform Kenya s politics from being about personality cults and tribalism to where political competition is about ideas and what you will do for the Kenyan people. I, therefore, expect that he will focus his extraordinary personal and institutional capacities to make this happen. The Jubilee Party will be how he achieves this.As Uhuru said, it is not a special purpose vehicle for electing selfish leaders; it is a platform for uniting Kenyans. Jubilee is also about the team that will work with him during his second and final term. I suspect only those who understand and internalise this essence of what JP is, and can add value to it, will survive in this party.