Until the IEBC downscaled the cost of running a successful parliamentary campaign, in some constituencies lay observers had a higher quote for the 2017 general election. Even the lower figure of Sh33 million required to run a successful campaign is still too high for politicians driven by the desire to serve the public.It was claimed Sh60 million is needed to run a successful campaign as an MP, say in a constituency in Homa Bay county, where gonyo - politics of handouts - is at its peak. Without this, they say, the status quo remains.The winning bidder will spend the next five years recovering, while plotting re-election. This means the cylinder of corruption fires at both ends and sideways. You raise this money through a loan or raiding capital savings. Since bank interests rates are rising, the appetite for corruption will soar among incumbents.The pedestrian view also factors in heavy competition for these positions, the illusion of grandeur of elective politics, and the general cost of living of the gullible electorate.The price of a dish of omena, a common delicacy in this part of the world, has gone up from Sh50 during the March 4, 2013, general election, to Sh75. The prices of other basic goods have also gone up, including that of chang aa.The chang aa market has been turbulent, with heavy risks for dealers and drinkers. The risks have tripled with the presidential order to destroy illicit brew. The number of those willing to take liquor vending risks has fallen. Dealers have gone underground. But the number of drinkers has probably risen due to soaring mass desperation. The price has increased from Sh85 in 2013 to Sh120, on average for an ordinary glass of cham.Handouts to hustling youth from politicians are likely to end up buying intoxicants. For this generation of social desperadoes, chang aa is the stuff such money can buy. It intoxicates and kills the stressed mind faster - lulls and depresses. They need this stuff to forget the consequences and worries of political exploitation and corruption.A woman voter s take is more likely to be spent on paraffin, matchboxes, salt, sugar, kadogo goods and omena. Handouts generally come in Sh50 to Sh200 notes.Election time is considered a harvest season in a country where civic consciousness is low, and leadership integrity is wanting. Give direct is the norm for politicians who want to win at any cost, and for voters who expect seasonal change of money circulation in the village.Some constituencies, for example, give MPs two terms of five years each. This means a decade of corruption-driven leadership. The same logic - of money buys elections - applies for the wards, counties, and the presidency. Party hopping, sucking up to governors, uptake of brown envelops, cash-for-questions, and spurious benchmarking trips (bed-marking) are fair game in a corrupt polity.The war on corruption is not always popular with those who enjoy the proceeds of impunity. The EACC, CDF Board, Auditor General, and the Controller of Budget work under fear of MPs, who often lynch with glee. The result is a vicious cycle of desperation. Empowering the masses would rob deceptive politicians of their godlike stature. They want the masses to remain vulnerable so they can worship them. Third-rate politicians always need cash to toss around. They deal with people who easily forget and forgive political mendacity. They often get away with deception.How will you deceive illiterate and poor voters to elect you if you solve most of their shared challenges? You promise tapped water, but ensure the taps do not run. You promise food security, but your survival depends on their hunger. You promise improved educational standards, but keep the electorate down to look up to you as their saviour.