With their place in the semi-finals of the Cecafa women s Championship secure, Harambee Starlets will be looking to complete their group stages fixtures with a bang when they face whipping girls Zanzibar.Starlets booked their place in the knockout stages of the seven-national competition by thrashing Uganda and Burundi with a similar 4-0 margin on Tuesday and they are already guaranteed of finishing top of the group in the inaugural women s competition at Technical Institute Njeru in Jinja, Uganda.The 4-0 score-line seems to be the magic number for the coach David Ouma s side although things could change for the better if what has befell their opponents in the tournament is anything to go by.Ouma will likely use today s clash with the islanders to give a run out to the fringe players, who have yet to taste competitive action at the tourney, bearing in mind Kenya are using the competition additionally to prepare for their maiden appearance in the African women s Nations Cup in Cameroon in two months time.Skipper Mary Kinuthia of Thika queens and Essie Akida (Speedag) underlined their importance to the Starlets by scoring in their second consecutive matches. Essie now has three goals to her name and she will be hoping to be given an opportunity to add to his tally and vie for the Golden Boot award and so will Kinuthia, who has two goals to her total.Also hoping to add to her total will be Neddy Atieno, who starred in Tuesday s victory by scoring a brace. Midfielder Corazone Vivian might get her first start of the competition while Mercy Anyango and Christine Nafula will to be hoping to be in Ouma s first eleven this afternoon. The Kenya defence led by experienced Ann Aluoch, Wendy Achieng and Irene Awuor have kept their opponents at bay and Achieng, a regular in the national team, said they will not underrate Zanzibar. It s true Zanzibar are yet to win match in this event while on the flip side, we have won two matches. We will not be overconfident but we will instead focus in a bid to complete the group stage unbeaten. While the Africa Cup of Nations-bound team are yet to concede, their opponents Zanzibar have been the punching bag of the event. Zanzibar under the tutelage of Mustafa Suleiman were whitewashed 10-1 by Burundi on Sunday before succumbing to an equally humiliating 9-0 defeat at the hands of Uganda on Tuesday.Zanzibar coach Suleiman, however, says regardless of their win-less record in the event, they will be out to make a good impression against Starlets.The tactician said: We are aware Kenya is a strong team and have recorded two wins so far and are already in the semis. However, we are here to compete and we want to save our blushes and therefore we will be going for the win. Burundi and hosts Uganda will be fighting for the chance to join Kenya in the last four of the competition which concludes on Sunday. In Pool B , Ethiopia were to play their first match of the event yesterday against Rwanda, who fell to Tanzania last Monday.