On social media, people fish for likes, comments and shares. However, it s easy to forget that getting attention is different from getting paid. How do you convert 5000 likes to sales? In business, attention doesn t mean much if it doesn t translate to sales. Hence, smart entrepreneurs strategise on how to increase sales by milking social media activities. They create a system designed to grab attention, sustain interest and make people spend. It s a well-crafted and thought out process based on key marketing principles. Let s consider four of these concepts. A good story: Now, the story is as important as the product. People want to be part of an on-going conversation than merely make a random purchase. In our new, noisy world, business owners are expected to craft and sell a good story of why they exist and why it matters to people. What does your existence mean to your customers? For instance, Java House doesn t just sell coffee. It s a space designed for people to connect and share moments; the coffee house has a warm, homey feel. The story is that of warmth, friendship and good conversation Java Love. What s your story? Seek permission: We welcome the advances that we like. Otherwise, most people dislike interruption especially when you re trying to sell to them. Seth Godin, the marketing expert, said that, selling to people who actually want to hear from you is more effective than interrupting strangers who don t. Generally, people have limited time to do so much. So it s wise to find ways to first get their permission before you present an offer. Offer free stuff: Generosity has become a major part of business. You can easily find free samples of goods and services that lure customers and eventually convert them to buyers. This market strategy is prevalent because it works. People are able to taste the goods before they commit. However, for the free approach to be profitable, it must be part of a well thought out sales process. This way, free becomes the funnel; it s a conversation starter.Call to Action: When you finally get a potential customer s attention, what do you plan to do with it? What next step do you want them to take? What do you want people to do after you ve gotten their attention? It helps to make it very clear and easy for them to navigate. Ask directly for engagement. Make instructions straight forward and distinct. A clear call-to-action would greatly enhance your marketing effort.Twitter: @SamuelMpamugoBlog: theyouideology.com