Senator Lenny Kivuti and Runyenjes MP Cecily Mbarire have been described as warlords , following their public altercation on Sunday.Embu Governor Martin Wambora joined various leaders who reacted to the bitter exchange of words and shoving and pushing between Kivuti and Mbarire in Karurumo Village, Embu East, during a funds drive for a group of musicians. The event ended in disarray.The legislators pushed and pulled for a microphone and shouted at each other in Mbarire s constituency, as each sought to address charged supporters. Their supporters applauded and condemned them in equal measure. When the warlords are going on with their issues, I and the MCAs will continue with development the way the leader of majority has said, Wambora said.He spoke int Kairuri Playground on Monday when he commissioned 113 newly trained security officers who will be deployed to various parts of the county to enforce the Embu government s policy and laws.Wambora said he will not allow the warlords to disrupt his meetings and he will carry on with development until his term ends.He said the new officers will enforce the law and prevent disruption of his meetings, indicating that some rivals had planned to disrupt yesterday s forum.Wambora said the county commissioner wanted to send police to prevent disruption, but he declined, saying the new officers are enough.Governor hopeful Kithinji Kiragu criticised Kivuti and Mbarire over their clash, saying it was embarrassing. He said he will not allow his rivals to disrupt his political meetings.Embu elders condemned the quarrel and urged politicians to be tolerant of each other. During the Sunday clash, Mbarire s supporters shouted, Sisty for governor! , while Kivuti s supporters shouted Kivuti for Governor! all at the same time.Police had a difficult time separating the supporters, some of whom were exchanging blows and kicks as the two leaders shouted at each other. I cannot allow you to come to my constituency to ridicule me by coming to launch your governorship ambitions here. Couldn t you do it at your place? You cannot shake me, this is my home ground! Mbarire was heard shouting.Kivuti, who held the microphone tightly, also shouted back telling her that he has a right to go anywhere in the county as he is the senator.