A teenager has come out to claim that Ali Kiba's brother, Abdul Salehe Kiba has refused to accept responsibility for her pregnancy. Adding, he has gone to the extent of blocking her calls.Abdul Kiba is being accused by Nasra Salum, 19-years-old who claims she is a student at Islamic Academy in Oman.Nasra narrated how she meet the father of her unborn child. I meet Abdul Kiba through Instagram, he slid into my DM and requested for my phone number that i use on WhatsApp. I gave him," Nasra told Global TV. We started chatting and flirting, with Adbul flattering me at every corner. I was so in love, I started hating school to a point where I got into serious trouble with my aunt. I did not want to go to school any more. All I wanted was to go back home to Tanzania and meet Abdul who was now my boyfriend."After one particular nasty argument with her aunt, Nasra was put on a flight back home, but she did not go home to her parents she went to stay at her sister's house in Kariakoo, Dar es Salaam. All the while on my flight back home I was in constant communication with Abdul, two days after my arrival in Tanzania, he came with three of his friends to my sister s home and requested that I go visit him at his house. I accepted." When we got to his home, I stayed in his bedroom the entire time, while he hang out with his boys in the living room. That nigh, we had sex four times without a condom. The second day, I also spent it in his bedroom. During lunch hour he brought me food, rice and chicken. That nigh, we again had sex two times, again without protection."Nasra claims, the following day after she left his house, it has been hard to get a hold of Adbul. She eventually found out he had blocked him, this was before he could tell him, he was going to be a father.Commenting on the allegations, Abdul told Global TV Abdul,"It is true. I did make love to her for two consecutive days while she was in my house, without protection.But I believe she just wants to look for publicity using my name. I don't believe she is pregnant."He added, "I blocked her when she started nagging me every waking moment. Each and every moment she is calling me. Also, it is not true that she is in school, she told me she is a business woman in Oman. That is the only reason, I went out with her. That said, ignore her. 