Kenya's Sauti Sol have bagged two nominations in this year's MTV Africa Music Awards set for Johannesburg. This being the first round of nominations for the MAMAs, Sauti Sol are joined by Wizkid, Cassper Nyovest and AKA.Fifty MAMA nominees including artists and achievers from 18 countries were revealed in 9 key music and lifestyle award categories by Viacom International Media Networks (VIMN) Africa and MTV Base (DStv channel 322) at a star-studded reception at Constitution Hill, Johannesburg, South Africa last night. At the front of the field is Nigerian star Wizkid with three nominations including nods in Best Male, Best Collaboration and Personality of the Year. Next in line with two nominations each are AKA (South Africa), Cassper Nyovest (South Africa) and Sauti Sol (Kenya). The hotly contested Best Hip Hop category sees MAMA nominations for Emtee and Riky Rick of South Africa, who ll be going head to head against Nigeria s Olamide and Ycee, and Kiff No Beat (Ivory Coast). An epic battle of the bands is in store in the Best Group category where Ghana s R2bees face off against Kenya s Sauti Sol, South Africa s Mi Casa, Navy Kenzo from Tanzania and Togolese duo, Toofan.In lifestyle category Personality of the Year, Pearl Thusi goes up against soccer player Pierre Emerick Aubameyang (Gabon), middle distance runner and Olympic gold medallist Caster Semenya, blogger Linda Ikeji (Nigeria) and musician Wizkid (Nigeria) vie for Personality of the Year. The second round of nominations, comprising 7 additional award categories, including Artist of the Year, Best Female, Listener s Choice, Best Breakthrough, Best Francophone, Song of the Year in partnership with Google, and Video of the Year, will be revealed at the Hard Rock Caf , Lagos, Nigeria during Road to MAMA Lagos 2016 (2 October 2016). No nominations will be revealed for the MTV Base Reimagined award, and MAMA Legend. Commented Alex Okosi, Senior Vice President &amp; Managing Director, Viacom International Media Networks (VIMN) Africa, The MAMA celebrates Africa s incredible young musicians and trailblazers by breaking down barriers, driving engagement, and highlighting the continent s rich and abundant talent. It s an honour to be able to salute their achievements at MAMA 2016, and we offer our congratulations to all of the nominees as we look forward to the most exciting and diverse MAMA yet. Voting for MAMA 2016 opens at 23.00 CAT on Wednesday 21 September at www.mtvbase.com and affiliated Twitter, Facebook and Instagram accounts. Additionally, fans can vote for Best Group and Best International Act from 21 September by simply searching for MTV MAMA on Google, with each Google account allowed 5 votes per category per day. Google voting for Best Breakthrough and Song of the Year will open on 2 October. Voting in all categories closes at 23.59 CAT on 19 October 2016.