Last year, the image of a three-year-old Alan Kurdi lying face-down on the beach sparked international outcry humanity washed ashore over the human cost of the migration crisis. Kurdi drowned alongside his older brother, his mother and other Syrians from the town of Kobane, who had fled to Turkey. They were running away from advancing Islamic State terror group militants.September 2 marked the first anniversary of Kurdi's death. Has the migration crisis got any better? In any case, it has got worse.Developments in migration crisisOut of the over one million migrants that entered Europe in 2015, majority of them, 971,289, travelled by sea. On May 29, the UN refugee agency said over 700 migrants died in three Mediterranean Sea as they tried to reach Europe. This is possibly the largest number of deaths reported in the Mediterranean since April 2015, when a ship sank with an estimated 800 people trapped inside.Ironically, this came just hours after the World Humanitarian Summit was held in Istanbul, Turkey all the leaders of the five permanent members of the UN Security Council were absent.Asked whether any real progress had been made on the refugees issue, former UN high commissioner for refugees Antonio Guterres said, I think that there is a lot of progress being made in this regard, but there is still a long way to go, IRIN news reported.In the lead-up to the summit, UN secretary general Ban Ki-moon proposed a fairer approach to sharing the burden of refugees with host countries, and a target to reduce internal displacement by 50 per cent by 2030. In the same kind of arrangement, the EU promised to give Ankara Sh632 billion to help the estimated 2.7 million Syrians now stuck on Turkish soil.Patrick Gathara, a communications consultant who worked for the Amison between 2010-13, says this won't offer a solution to the crisis. The EU, he says, is paying Turkey to prevent the refugees from entering Europe and not stop them from moving from Africa.The International Migration Organisation says more than one million refugees are expected to enter Europe this year. In that regard, alongside Italy, former UK Prime Minister David Cameron stepped up calls for a naval blockade. Unfortunately, just like in the EU-Turkey agreement, a naval blockade will just but have a diverting effect, that Syrians for instance could still gain access from North African countries.Going by the developments in this crisis, it is clear the EU plan, even if it works out, will not be enough to offer a sustainable solution.Foreign Affairs director of consular affairs Washington Oloo says most people are migrating to Europe for better opportunities, such as employment. He adds that protracted conflicts, such as the South Sudanese and Somali conflicts, have pushed residents away, with some opting to move to Europe. This, he says, has been intensified by human trafficking, creating the migration industry.The migration industryThis, like any other business, is intended to make commercial gains. It involves labour recruiters, migration and refugee lawyers, travel agents, brokers, housing agents, remittance agencies, as well as migration and custom officials.The illegitimate part of the migration industry human trafficking and smuggling adds to the momentum of illegal migration that, to a great extent, has contributed to the crisis. Most of those trafficked end up suffering, especially in the Middle East. Oloo said that skilled job seekers and expatriates don't experience such mistreatment because they follow due process before taking jobs. This means the desperate majority use any means possible to move to Europe and other countries, many times signing up with these traffickers. Million-dollar profits are being made in this industry, the vast majority of it unaccounted for. Part of the unaccounted remittance is being used to finance illegal immigrants, facilitate their housing and job searches.Guy Verhofstadt, the President of Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe ALDE Group says: "As long as life is dangerous and miserable in Africa and peace is nowhere in sight like in Syria and Somalia, people will try and come to Europe. It is our duty to help create conditions for them to have a better life at home [Africa]." However, Dr Kigen Morumbasi, disagrees. Kigen, chairman of the governance department at the Technical University of Kenya, says: "Given every state and bloc has its own interests to pursue, their intervention will be for their own interests, not Africa's or the South's." He says the EU's initiatives are reactionary and coming too late because the impact is adverse.In any case, some member states have dissented refugee quotas.They include Poland, Hungary, Slovakia and Czech republic who prefer voluntary relocation to mandatory allocations. This is despite a penalty of 0.002 per cent of their GDP.Gathara insists the solution to the crisis remains in Africa. "The West and the Americans have been irresponsible, and have in fact created most of these problems," Gathara says. Kigen offers some proposals. One, African states should foster nationalism to deprive the necessity of their citizens to move to other countries. Second, African states have to improve the domestic environment that offers equal opportunities for all to grow and prosper.