Standard Chartered Bank have renewed the Impala Saracens Rugby Academy program for the next three years.The bank has committed to disburseSh18.7 million over the next three years to help identify and nurture talent. The club will draw the funds in three equal installments till 2018 when the contract expires.Speaking during the signing agreement yesterday, Standard Chartered Bank rugby chairman Peter Gitau expressed satisfaction with the strides made by the youth programme since it was launched in 2002. Through rugby, this programme continues to provide a pathway for youth from stained socio-economic circumstances to develop key life skills. The renewed partnership will create sustainable socioeconomic solutions at community level and produce championship performances in sports, added Gitau.The academy has a robust community outreach programme, offering mentorship for children and youth coupled with awarding of academic scholarships and wellness clinics.Since the sponsorship was launched 14 years ago, the Impala academy has partnered with nine primary schools for the under-14 programme and eight community high schools for the under-16 s.The primary level schools include Jamhuri, Milimani, Toi, Hidden Talent, Cheryl, Ndurarua, Old Kibera, Little Prince and Olympic high while at high school level Maono, Eutycus, Kibra, Olympic, Moonlight, Hidden Talent, Mutuini and Raila Odinga Centre. More than 2000 children have gone through the program which also hosts at least four age grade tournaments annually. From this programme, Sam Onsomu, Paul Mutsami, Mike Shammah and Erick Kerre among others have received various national team call-upsImpala chairman Bill Githinji lauded the partnership programme and said the club is headed towards achieving trophies in the coming years. The stability that such a partnership offers allow us to plan with confidence and focus to attain desired program outcomes. If you look at our performance in the last two to three years, it s been on upwards trajectory. We reached the Kenya Cup final last year with a good number of our players coming through the age grade rugby and with the renewal of the partnership, we can get better in the years to come, added Githinji.Through the sponsorship, the academy team toured the United Kingdom in 2014 and last year. Youth in the academy also enjoy medical insurance cover to ensure the budding athletes are well taken care of in the event of sport related injuries.