City MCAs got into another fist fight on Thursday &nbsp;when one rose to table a motion for&nbsp; Governor Evans Kidero&#39;s impeachment motion. The Assembly erupted shortly after Viwandani MCA Samwel Nyang&#39;wara stood to table the motion that he sponsored. Dandora phase 4 ward representative Dan Oria&nbsp;rose and grabbed the paper containing the motion from Nyangwara before punching him. Nyang&#39;wara threw the punch back at Oria who is said to have been drunk at the time. Several others joined in the fight, one managing to pelt deputy speaker Ken Ngondi with a water bottle.During the chaos that went on for at least 15 minutes, some MCAs poured the water in their bottles, sang songs in praise of Kidero and condemned Nyangwara for it. The Sergeant-at-arms and his men were overpowered in their struggle to restore order, forcing the deputy speaker to adjourn sessions indefinitely. Nyang&#39;wara said on Wednesday that his life was in danger, as people have been &quot;sent to kill&quot; him, and asked police to accord him security.&nbsp; The motion for Kidero&#39;s removal had earlier been approved by speaker Alex Magelo who was away on an official visit to Mombasa. More on this:&nbsp; Nairobi speaker Magelo approves Kidero impeachment motion More than 56 Cord and Jubilee MCAs signed the petition to remove the city boss from the office. Nyang&rsquo;wara, who recently joined Jubilee, said Kidero has &ldquo;violated the constitution since we joined the assembly&rdquo; and failed to make use of the Ward Development Fund. But the Controller of Budget has insisted that the ward development fund is unconstitutional. Nyang&rsquo;wara also accused the Governor of misappropriation of funds. &ldquo;We have been passing budgets but have not seen anything happening in our wards. There are no tangible projects,&rdquo; he said. Nairobi MCAs have fought twice before in the Chamber while Kidero has faced impeachment on two occasions. In&nbsp;September 2013 , Karura MCA Kamau Thuo introduced a motion to impeach the Governor for allegedly slapping Nairobi woman representative Rachael Shebesh.Thuo last year accused Kidero of giving a Sh200 million bribe to a Supreme Court judge to rule in his favour in a case in which Kabete MP Ferdinand Waititu challenged his&nbsp;election.It will take two thirds of the 127 members of the county assembly to remove the Governor from office.Cord has 64 members, while Jubilee has 63. Like Nyang&rsquo;wara, Cord MCA Diana Kapeen (South C) has moved to Jubilee.Read: MCAs draft motion to impeach Kidero, Speaker MageloAlso read: Nairobi MCA spotted at Jubilee Party launch denies ditching ODM