The delay by the Jubilee government in kicking off the reconstitution of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission is frightening, considering the high stakes involved and the enormous public interest.Key stakeholders who invested heavily in reaching the recently negotiated deal to disband the Issack Hassan-led team and consequently initiate the electoral reforms must be taking note of this questionable delay.Could some strategic players within the establishment be throwing a spanner into the works? Could they be taking advantage of the prevailing political calm in the country to bastardise the hard-won deal which was meant to sanitise the electoral process in this country? If that is the case then, theirs is the height of political sadism!All along, Jubilee was never keen on these electoral reforms until local and international pressure was exerted and sustained. The diplomatic community, religious groups and civil society joined forces to call for reforming the IEBC at a time when Jubilee had defied the opposition s calls to reconstitute the electoral team.So adamant were they that they turned demands for these reforms into a civil war, where they crudely converted the police service into a partisan militia, terrorising the opposition leaders and supporters who took to the streets in peaceful and constitutional demonstrations. Innocent Kenyans were killed as a result, while scores were injured. The government showed no remorse. This mischief boils down to the country s much-criticised culture of political dishonesty. This is where politicians win elections through open deceit and criminal manipulation. They then spend their time in office breaking the law and exploiting the masses.Because the opposition and the public quickly notice and question this waywardness, these leaders resort to extreme survival measures such as negative ethnicity, bad governance, extrajudicial killings, political assassinations and massive looting to raise billions to buy support and protection. This is raw political interaction. It is most displayed in such shocking utterances such as the opposition should know that we are in power and we are not in any hurry to exit. We are eating meat while they salivate. Let them continue salivating as we feast! The blatant non-compliance with the mutually agreed strict deadlines for the reforms and suspect delays can only be aimed at two or three outcomes. First, to buy time until it s too late to effect the changes and hence bulldoze to allow the current IEBC team to manage the 2017 general election. This will be on the pretext that it became impossible to hire poll chiefs.Second, to push the country into a tight corner of impossible deadlines so as to use the desperation, confusion and unease to pick and plant a pre-determined incompetent, pro-Jubilee team to rig them in. This will replicate what former President Mwai Kibaki did late in 2007, just months to the elections, and plunged the country into the infamous post-election violence. Third, and God forbid, to generate chaos and trouble during the election year to force a postponement of the polls.This will enable them to cling to power indefinitely, as a caretaker government. This last option will come in handy if the incumbent regime realises that their chances of re-election are bleak as they have grossly under-delivered on their manifesto. These three options are moot, unwelcome and dangerous. The focus should be on getting the new commissioners and equipment procurement process to enhance transparency in voting and tallying.