At first glance, it seems incredible any political party would want well over 120,000 delegates attending its grand launch.But when you break it down, this not only makes sense, but you also begin to see that number may be an underestimate.Kenya has 290 elected MPs and 1,450 MCAs. Each of these if defending their seats would want to bring their delegates to the extravaganza. Of course, each of them will have five to 10 local leaders competing with them, all wanting to be seen to taking an active part in the historic festivities.And make no mistake, it will be a festival. For in our Kenyan political context, the launch of a new party absorbing 13 smaller parties is not a scientific, somber and restrained undertaking. Rather, it's guaranteed to be a wild and exuberant party accompanied by declarations of inevitable victories that lie ahead and a celebration of the wisdom and farsightedness of the party leader.But back to the maths. If you were an aspiring MP or MCA, in any but the most hardcore ODM zones, would you miss out on an event like this? Wouldn't you want to see and be seen ? And would you journey alone to this great event or would you take along a few dozen of your most dedicated supporters some of them rural Kenyans who consider a visit to Nairobi a huge treat?So, even allowing for only half the MPs and MCAs seeking Jubilee Party tickets, you are still dealing with 1,400 parliamentary aspirants, and at least 7,000 small-timers seeking to be MCAs.One way or the other, there will easily be 10,000 ambitious men and women seeking to be part of the creation of this new all-powerful party. And if each brings 20 ardent supporters, that would easily be 200,000.Admittedly, this is a choreographed event in which 13 of the 19 or so regional affiliates of the ruling coalition merge into single party with a national outlook .But there is simply no way the mass of political aspirants countrywide are going to miss the mother of all parties in Nairobi.Individual pockets will be filled with cash for accommodation, food and drink, colourful T-shirts (or even long-sleeve shirts with button-down collars) and other delights. And next year, the candidates who missed the grand launch will forever be reminded by their rivals, "You were not there when we created our new party, so how can you hope to get our party ticket ?