The bid to sack Nairobi speaker Alex Magelo has suffered a blow after 21 Jubilee MCAs, who had appended their signatures to the petition, withdrew.The ward representatives withdrew their signatures before the speaker could approve the draft motion for tabling in the House, thus not meeting the threshold.Some 57 MCAs 36 from Cord and 21 Jubilee had signed the petition. The Standing Orders require that at least one-third, or 43 of the 127 members, sign the petition to begin the impeachment process.The motion was on the speaker s desk for approval on Thursday evening after the clerk s office gave it the go-ahead. We asked our members to withdraw because this was a trap by Cord. We know these are diversionary tactics to defuse the hot topic of removing the governor from office, minority leader Abdi Guyo said.The assembly has been in turmoil after a motion to impeach Governor Evans Kidero was tabled on Tuesday last week. MCAs brawled over the impending motion on September 29 and last Tuesday.The sponsor of the motion to sack Magelo, Makongeni MCA Peter Imwatok (ODM), accused the speaker of deliberately delaying the approval of the motion.He said Magelo delayed the motion so he could get support against it.In the motion, Imwatok accused the speaker of incompetence, saying he has failed to protect the dignity, honour, respect and integrity of the assembly. The speaker has and continues to degrade, malign the character and ability of the honourable members of this county assembly by making malicious, contemptuous vilification of members with divergent views and unfounded allegations against the rules and procedures of this assembly, the motion states.Meanwhile, chief whip David Mberia will sue the county assembly Public Service Board for kicking him out of his office. He said he will move to court tomorrow.Mberia s office was locked on Thursday last week after a scuffle with majority leader Elias Otieno. I have consulted my lawyer and he advised me accordingly. I am suing this board. I am not elected by the board. I am elected by members, he said.Mberia and Otieno almost came to blows last week when the impeachment motion against Kidero was being tabled in the chamber. Mberia accused Otieno of belittling him.