A woman sent six photographs of a married man's erect penis to his wife by special delivery after he ended their three-month affair.Janice Mansfield, 59, sent the pictures to the man's wife because she wanted her to "know what he was like".She had met the man on Facebook and they clicked thanks to a mutual interest in flying. They had a three-month affair but he broke off their relationship in February, allegedly telling the woman he had led her "up the garden path". She then began a campaign of harassment, which included sending emails to the customer service department at John Lewis, for which she received a police caution.She then sent the explicit photos to his home - addressed to his wife - but he intercepted them before his wife saw them. Richard Job, for the prosecution, told Croydon Crown Court: "She did not take that news well. In the days that followed she sent him a number of messages that he found distressing."In light of what happened before he was concerned that the letter may contain material that would upset his wife so he opened it."It contained a long letter addressed to his wife detailing the affair that he had with Janice Mansfield."It had attached to it a number of photographs, including six photographs of his erect penis."During the sexual relationship those photographs had been exchanged and now Janice Mansfield was sending those photographs to his wife."He was, as you would expect, extremely distressed to see the contents of that envelope."He reported the letter to the police and Mansfield was arrested. A few days later, he received an email from Mansfield "expressing her disgust" that he had gone to police. Job added: "She stated that she had sent that letter because she wanted to hurt him in the same way that he had hurt her when he ended their relationship."If you send photographs of the penis of a man you have had an affair with to his wife, what could you possibly intend by doing that?"The only inference you can draw from that is that she intended to cause distress to the person to whom the penis belonged."Asked why she had sent the photographs, the defendant said: "For three months he pursued me relentlessly and said he wanted to marry me eventually. He completely led me along and, then, like a bombshell told me 'I've led you up the garden path'."She added: "I had spoken to [a woman] who had told me that she had given oral sex to him, and they had been having an affair for a few years."She said that she phoned him in Miami and her friend had a flat and they could use it to have sex, and he said he'd think about it but if her friend agreed to a threesome he'd definitely think about it."I felt his wife should be informed about his antics because at that time I had a discharge and I didn't know what it was. "He was cheating on his wife, he was cheating on me and cheating on other people too."She said she could have put the pictures on "Facebook or Twitter" but sent them by private mail only for his wife as she was "not vindictive". Mansfield denied one count of disclosing private sexual photographs with intent to cause distress and the trial continues.