One of the men aspiring to be the next Governor of Nairobi is rumoured to have met former Mungiki sect leader Maina Njenga in a move to seek his support. Those in the know say top on the agenda was for the banned sect to regroup and be massively funded and help the man win the battle for City Hall. Word has it the man wants Mungiki to regroup because he fears his opponents are using all means, fair and not, to outwit him and he believes the sect will be of great help to him.*******The relationship between two lovebirds, a TV presenter and her controversial new lover, a well-known businessman, looks like it will not last for long. The sultry anchor, who is known for her flashy lifestyle, is said to have been dating a top official from State House but they broke up a few months ago due to her extravagant demands. A mole close to the presenter tells Corridors the official from the House on the Hill parted ways with the TV girl because he could no longer afford her lifestyle. The presenter, who lives in an expensive house in one of the poshest city estates, nearly moved out after the sponsor pulled out, but when she met her new catch, the controversial businessman, she decided to stay and, since then, the man has been forced to foot her enormous bills so as to keep the relationship "healthy". The man has gone to the extent of borrowing loans, which he never repays.**********An Indian expatriate at a leading international pharmaceutical company linked to a top Jubilee politician is harassing and intimidating local employees. The manager has been on a sacking spree over the past three months since he joined the company and replacing them with staff of Indian origin. Worse still, the flamboyant boss has been threatening the victims of his unprofessional conduct by boasting that nothing will happen to him because he is connected politically to the who-is-who in this country. Last week he laid-off a highly qualified and experienced sales representative without justification, despite the young man having surpassed his targets all the time. Some of the terrified employees have already written a petition to Parliament seeking the deportation of the bully expatriate who hires and fires at will without following the employment laws.*********Two MCAs and a senior officer at the Kisumu county assembly nearly fainted after a company they formed while on a trip to South Africa failed to get a tender for a Ward Development Fund project. The duo was to make a cool Sh12 million and had promised 36 elected MCAs Sh1.5 million to help derail the operations of the executive ahead of the general election. The tender was valued at Sh185 million. One of them is said to have retreated into silence after he promised one of the candidates that he would spearhead the campaign to cripple the executive and subsequently lead a no-confidence vote against the governor.