A Mombasa politician was overheard laughing at media reports about a group calling itself the Jubilee in Mombasa Lobby. He questioned how a man who failed to garner 400 votes in his bid for MP in the last elections could appoint himself chairman. The outfit has packaged itself as representing the interests of the Mijikenda. It comprises aspirants who lost in 2013. The group is said to have been behind the announcement that Mining CS Najib Balala could run for Mombasa governor in 2017. When Balala declared he is not interested, it settled on former Kisauni MP Ananiah Mwaboza . The lobby is said to be financed by a senior opposition politician to create friction among Jubilee players.The pending appointment of a new Kentrade CEO has exposed a massive lobbying campaign in favour of a particular candidate. First, the job advertisement, which required candidates to have eight years of senior management, was re-advertised. The requirement was reduced to five years. Although the interviews were conducted in June, the process was put on ice because the preferred candidate was under investigation by the EACC. A board member was then directed to lobby the Director of Public Prosecutions and the EACC to clear him. The day the director returned with a clearance letter, the board was quickly constituted and the candidate who did not come out atop during the interviews was quickly recommended for appointment. It will be interesting to see how the Treasury deals with it, given the questions about merit, transparency and accountability in the process.***Some Thika residents have accused police officers in the town of being compromised, after they allowed a dirty party to take place. They claim the officers disregarded the law that requires the county government to allow such meetings. Those whose children attended the bush party say many bad things happened. One parent was asked how such a party was allowed to take place these days. We know what our children can do, the parent said, sharing his frustrations. He urged the authorities to take action against those involved. ***Still in Thika, some alleged offenders released from a cell last Friday said about 12 suspects are held there, instead of in the prisons. The oldest has been in the cell for eight months, with the full knowledge of the OCS, they said. They said there is a cartel running the station and it is able to keep suspects at the police cell, instead of a remand facility. They gave the names of those locked up at the station without a remand warrant and want the IAU and Ipoa to investigate the station chiefs and take necessary action.