A proposal has recently been made through a Bill in parliament to reduce the claims payment period from 90 to 30 days.This means that once a claim is lodged, an insurance company will have to pay the client within one month.Insurance companies generally rely on great customer service and specifically on good claims payment record to woo customers. For this reason, we try as much as possible to honour claims in good time because it is beneficial to both the client and the underwriter.For us at ICEA Lion, it is not so much the stipulated shorter claims payment period that is the issue. We constantly strive to settle claims within the shortest possible, which is usually well within the proposed 30-day period, to meet with the high expectations of our clients and thereby delight them.However, the claim reporting stage is where the problem starts for most insurers and customers and it all stems from one main issue: documentation. Many are the times that customers have lodged a claim but without supporting documents or at times without duly filling the claim form. Some of the supporting documents required for processing claims include a KRA Personal Identification Number (PIN), a copy of a valid driving licence, a copy of the national ID and a police abstract.If it is a claim for a motor accident, a copy of the logbook and details of the third party involved, including their insurance cover and car registration will be crucial. For easier claims processing, customers are required to provide as much detail as possible of the circumstances leading to the loss of their property.Provision of scanty information delays claims processing. For example, a client may have had an office or house break-in and an item stolen. When lodging a claim for such a scenario, customers are advised to write in detail the circumstances surrounding the theft as well as provide a log of the insured items that were stolen to assist an insurance firm to provide a quick resolution to the claim.Lastly, customers are supposed to check the claim form and documents to ensure that all the details provided are correct. Perhaps because of shock that comes with some loss situations, sometimes clients write incorrect details on the claim form such as the wrong contact number or incorrect KRA pin.For an industry on high alert about its susceptibility to fraud, such errors whether genuine or done on purpose could delay claims processing significantly because a fraud investigations team has to be alerted in some of these cases.The industry is grappling with sophisticated fraud cartels that are changing tact every now and then. We are doing our best to initiate measures to curb the rising fraud. It needs time to evaluate claims and make sure that these fraud cartels do not fleece the underwriters by taking advantage of a shorter claims payment period to entrench themselves even more in the market.Steven Oluoch is the chief executive officer, ICEA Lion General Insurance