The decision by ODM to develop a strategic plan focussing on future nominations comes at a critical time as the country heads to the 2017 general election. To an observer, the plan looks good, an indicator democracy is growing in our political system.In the event the planning comes to fruition, the party will be seen in a positive light because it will help put ODM's often chaotic nominations in proper perspective. But the reality is that the move will likely be in vain. Even if the party succeeds in this endeavour, a better nominations process is unlikely to change its fortunes.While the thinking behind this plan is good, the majesty of coalitions' politics is different. That every political party has its stronghold and the idea of fair nominations matters nothing.Looking back, we know ODM's 2013 nominations were a re-engineered version of the 1988 general election characterised by queue voting. We can draw many parallels.First, we all know our political system is not based on ideology. It is anchored in a system of patronage or fiefdoms tightly controlled by political kingpins. Their fiefdoms are political party strongholds. Nominations there will not matter. What is important in such scenarios is the nomination certificate. Whoever flaunts such certificate in a political stronghold will be elected, as history has shown time and again.In such cases it is the party leaders who decide who wins the nominations, based on the candidates' loyalty, wealth or political charisma.This is based on the fact that in such areas, the strength of the party oftentimes overrides the popularity of the candidates. Nomination outcomes peaceful, messy, fair or unfair won't count for much.The one important lesson we learn from this is that our democracy is growing. We should be happy that in the next few decades we shall look back and conclude this was an important step on the way to democracy.It is good for the party, and all other Kenyan parties, because they are basically all the same, for ODM to push for mechanisms for less protracted nominations. But this may not change the party s perspective on many issues.The change we anticipate is good to the extent that the party may reduce the bad publicity that has dogged its nominations in the recent past.The author is a political analyst and a communications expert based in Nairobi.