Music is good for everyone s soul. Since a young age, I have always loved doing music. Creating music is kind of a great experience, as you get to make something that another person will end up liking and singing along to it. Right now at JKUAT, my main area of study is production, where I want to be as successful as Refigah, my boss, and bring in a new generation of artistes into the music arena.My stage name is Beat Ya Cedar or Cedric on the Beat .0530HRS-1300HRSEarly morning at around 5.30am, I wake up for a morning jog and go to the gym until 7am. I get some time to prepare myself for my 8am degree lectures in Jkuat-Juja, where I am finalising on my Electronic Media course. I finish most of my schoolwork by around 1pm, then head to the Grandpa Records studio. 1300HRS-1500HRSI tend to come up with fresh ideas everyday, where I make at least four beats in two hours, making weird beats no matter how they sound, it s a way of creating new sounds. I also meet with clients over that time so they can also give their input to the creation of the beats. 1500HRS-1800HRSI spend time taking YouTube lessons on mixing and mastering tracks. I then take a walk within Kibera and Yaya, enjoying snacks. I complete assignments and go for night sessions with our in-house artistes at the label. Whenever I have group discussions during the day, I ensure I attend them during this time. My school music band, led by our own Tim Imbwaga and Isaac, always meets at around five in the evening. I play piano for the band and also train for the keyboard. 1800HRSI head home and take time to revise all work done during the day. I listen with friends to the beats I have created, so they can tell me what I need to Improve on. In this profession, you need to know what the target market really wants and what would be appealing to them. WEEKENDSI travel to my rural home Kericho, where I spend the weekend with my mother, Pamela, my better half Loice (Memo) and Sister Charlotte. The family meets at home for bonding, life motivational talks and advice. Here, we get to talk about our week and what we have accomplished. In turn, I am instilled with wisdom by my mum, who is part of the reason why I love producing music.