While Nairobi played host to the Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD VI) last week, one Japanese philanthropist slipped unobtrusively into the country. Happy to remain low-key, his influence has been felt across several African countries and his work has effected lives and the future of nations.Yohei Sasakawa is the chairman of Japan s largest private philanthropic foundation The Nippon Foundation. Originally established in 1962 with a focus on the maritime and shipping fields, its activities have expanded into education, social welfare, public health and many other areas.Yohei Sasakawa s first experience of Africa was the devastating famine that ravaged the Horn of Africa in particular Ethiopia in 1984/85. His father, Ryoichi Sasakawa, was also deeply affected and food aid was distributed to the crisis regions. But the Saskawas reasoned that endless food aid when a crisis of this kind developed was not the answer to the problem. They wanted a more sustainable way so they turned for guidance and advice from former US President Jimmy Carter and the acknowledged father of the Green Revolution in India and Pakistan, Dr Norman Borlaug.Borlaug, then a 70-year-old Nobel Peace Prize Laureate said he was too old to take on new challenges. Ryoichi Sasakawa, in a famous riposte, said that he was 15 years older than Borlaug and work should start immediately. And it did.The three founders of what was to become the Sasakawa Africa Association (SAA) agreed that Africa had the potential to feed itself and that the target of the new initiative should be the millions of hardworking smallholder farmers across the continent who struggled to avoid the poverty trap. The technology to transform farmers fields existed in African and international laboratories and it could, if correctly applied, double or triple farmers yields of staple food crops.The first Sasakawa-Global 2000 programme (incorporating the Carter Center s Global 2000 initiative) began in Ghana in 1986 - and, over the next 20 years, had reached out to 14 African countries. A key part of its activities was to strengthen government extension services, which usually languished for lack of resources while influencing policymakers of the importance of agriculture as an economic necessity. Sometimes, with donors concentrating on structural adjustment in those days, it was a hard argument to win.Norman Borlaug died in 2009 an inspirational figure who had driven SAA forward in the face of many frustrations and difficulties. At his funeral, Yohei Sasakawa said that the foundation would continue to support SAA s work in Africa.There was a new emphasis on women farmers and resource poor farmers and support for agriculture s value chain from production to markets and consumption.To lead this new era, SAA appointed as chair, distinguished Kenyan Professor Ruth Oniang o with a proven record as an academic, scientist and nutritionist. Indeed, in the 30 years since the foundation of SAA, The Nippon Foundation has spent over $300 million (Sh30 billion) in support of its programmes an unprecedented figure from an NGO donor for a development project on a continuous basis.Yohei Sasakawa has also put capacity building at the heart of The Nippon Foundation s extensive maritime activities which go back over half a century. One example is the provision of a scholarship fund for the World Maritime University in Malmo, Sweden, since 1987. The University was established by the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) In 1983.Over 550 scholarships have been awarded, with 69 going to African countries. After graduating, scholars take up important posts in their own governments and educational institutions where they lead maritime affairs.With the World Maritime University, the IMO International Maritime Law Institute and The Nippon Foundation GEBCO training in New Hampshire, a new generation of ocean professionals is being nurtured.Yohei Sasakawa was awarded the International Maritime Prize for 2014 by the IMO for his contribution to supporting the development of future maritime leaders and to enhancing safety and security in vital shipping lanes. But perhaps his most enduring initiative, and the closest to his heart, is his decades long commitment to fighting leprosy and the social discrimination it causes. As WHO Goodwill Ambassador for Leprosy Elimination, a position he has held since 2001, Yohei has led a campaign to end discrimination and the human rights violations faced by tens of millions of leprosy affected people around the world.He tirelessly worked his way through the United Nations system to the point that a resolution for the elimination of discrimination against persons affected by leprosy and their family members was unanimously adopted by the UN General Assembly in 2010. This included a set of principles and guidelines for eliminating discrimination. He has spent the intervening years persuading governments and civil rights organisations to give substance to the UN Resolution in their own countries with marked effect.Since 2011, the foundation has focused on peace building initiatives as the government moves into the democratic era. Here, Yohei Sasakawa plays a leading role often disappearing into the bush to speak to warring and disaffected communities. There are 130 ethnic groups throughout the country. Not surprisingly, he is officially the Special Envoy of the Government of Japan for National Reconciliation in Myanmar.When peace and reconciliation finally come, Yohei Sasakawa will, once again, have left an indelible mark.