If you want to pulverize or neuter your political opponent, especially now that 2017 elections are looming large, you start by smearing him with mad. You embark on a mud-slinging orgy hoping he will eventually fall by the side as you take over from where he left. This scenario is quickly gaining ground in Turkana County. The man in the oven is the conscientious Governor Joseph Koli Nanok, the skinny man who many think he is a walk over. He has weathered many storms. But will he suffer an electile dysfunction when 2017 elections come calling? Nanok s tribulations started in earnest in late last year when he was dragged to the Senate on September 1 to be grilled on why he has been allegedly dipping his hand in the county s coffers. These allegations, however, have not been proved. When he appeared before the Senate Public Accounts Committee to be roasted multiple times, Nanok was surprised to meet his sworn political nemesis, Turkana Senator John Munyes. The Senator is not a member of his committee. So, why was he seated with SPAC members as a friend on that sunny afternoon as they awaited Nanok s arrival? Of course, he wanted to see Nanok being stewed in his own fat as he relished the moment. Although the county boss came out unscathed, he will never forget the humiliation he went through before SPAC as Munyes severed the moment. Nanok returned to his seat of power in Turkana as it dawned on him that Munyes had declared a bare-knuckled war on him. The gloves were finally off after months of poking the eye of the man he is dying to unseat next year. Nanok s sin is his association to Cord Principal Raila Odinga. The two are confidants and they don t hide it. This does not augur well for other politicians especially those aligned to Jubilee. As the only ODM governor in Rift Valley, no one expected him to enjoy his ride without his name being sullied. Jubilee wants to have the whole of the region under lock and key but Nanok has refused to be arm-twisted. He is protecting the three matters dear to his heart: The oil, the land and his relationship with ODM. He is opposed to the exploitation of the oil without clear laws that govern production. If anyone wants to force his way into the oil fields, they might have to go through Nanok first. Suddenly, every Dick, Tom and Jane have discovered that Turkana is heaven on earth. They are on the legendry great trek to the modern Canaan. Some, like Munyes say Turkana is being interfered with by politicians from outside . If you read between the lines, he is referring to Raila who has never turned down an invitation by Nanok to visit his county. The area MPs who have been longing to be seduced by Jubilee, are finally tucked in between the sheets with JP. Senator Munyes who was elected to the Senate on Ford-Kenya s ticket led two Turkana legislators (Turkana East MP Nicholas Ngikor and Loima MP Protus Akuja) in waltzing into JP s bosom on September 8. Munyes political gymnastics left Fork Kenya without a chairman. Now Moses Wetangula, the man behind this party is scratching his head bald in trying to think of the senator s replacement. Protus was elected on an ODM party ticket while Ngikor was elected on a Ford Kenya Party ticket.Turkana is now a pale image of its former self, politically speaking. It has been skinned to the bone. Raila was recently in Turkana to close the Third Cultural and Tourism Festival. But the real reason was to safeguard his stronghold. As a loyalty gesture, the youth scrubbed the roads clean, just for Baba . Raila was crowned a Turkana elder for the umpteenth time jus to remind others he is the only bull in the kraal. In spite of the MPs defection, the voters have not winked to Jubilee. It will therefore be hard for Munyes to unseat Nanok. Ends .