Gideon Kimathi faults the law that has denied the Deputy Speakers of the County Assemblies the opportunity of sitting on the Service Boards.Kimathi, the Deputy Speaker of Meru s Assembly, feels it is a major oversight for them to be excluded yet they have to abide by the decisions made by the board. The board decides on weighty matters that concern members and staff, he says. But as deputies we find ourselves in a quagmire; that you have to learn the decision made yet you are not part of it. You don t want to disown it so as not to be seen to be fighting members interest." Kimathi proposes there is need to change the county governments law to include Deputy Speakers on the Board.The University of Nairobi trained political scientist says being a Deputy Speaker is no easy task, especially in assembly with 13 different political parties. There is tremendous workload but the delicate balancing act to assuage the feelings of all the parties is what makes the difference.However, his biggest regret is the dysfunctional nature of the political system in Meru County. In particular the fall out between Governor Peter Munya and Senator Kiraitu Murungi has proved particularly polarising.His anger is directed towards Munya, a man he accuses of lone ranger antics that triggered the fallout.Besides, he questions Munya real intention arguing that his rebellion against the national government is unhelpful and could undermine development in the county. In the 2013 campaign we tried to bring all the leaders together but regrettably, we can t work as a team because the governor wants to work alone. Yet, the Deputy Speaker admits the rift between the two friends turned foes has not interfered with the operations of the county assembly. This, Kimathi says, has provided the MCAs and local politicians with an opportunity to interact and chart the future of the county without fighting each other.Early this year, the assembly approved a motion that requires the county government to integrate.The motion mandates the county to put in place programme similar to that of the National Youth Service where every ward will bring young people to be trained and integrated into society.The assembly has also approved a motion that seeks the county to establish a banana value-addition plant in Meru. The motion was unanimously passed in order to stop the conspiracy of the buyers who exploit the farmers, he says.1979: Born in Kiringa location, South Imenti1983-1995 Kithakanaro and Gatuntu Primary School1996: Meru School and Gikurune Boys where he sat for his KCSE in 20002002: University of Nairobi, graduated with Bachelors degree in Political Science in 20062007: Elected Councilor Kanyakine Ward,2011: Meru County Council, Chairman2012: University of Nairobi, Masters Degree in Project Management graduated in 20152013: Elected MCA Abogeta East Ward and Deputy SpeakerQuotes2014: NCIC is doing things sporadically. They need to be proactive in countering people who spread hate speech and not wait for things to escalate so that they can react. 2016: I have made a decision that I want to graduate from local politics and I will be vying for the South Imenti MP s seat. We had a convention in 2007 at Igoji teachers and we came up with a roadmap for recovery of South Imenti but after Kiraitu left South Imenti the current leadership is not willing and does not involve others. The dream we had is in shambles and I want to come back so that I can take South Imenti on the right track .2016: If somebody gains out of disorder that person will never like order. CORD leader Raila Odinga thrives in disorder and that is why he wants to create disorder. He is not interested in IEBC and I have a feeling that they want to cause confusion and later they will cause issues and there will be no time for a new IEBC to handle elections. They will seek to have elections pushed to a year and if this happens the president is not covered under that clause but the others are covered so that CORD will talk of transition period and coalition government .