The MCA sponsoring an ouster motion against Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero has disowned a letter showing that he has withdrawn the motion.Samuel Nyangwara (Viwandani) said he has never "dreamt" of withdrawing the motion and accused unnamed people in the county of forging his signature."I can't be that stupid to withdraw a motion that has already been suspended. I assure you, even if I remain alone, this motion must be debated," Nyangwara said. Read: Kidero s impeachment motion could fail as MCAs plot to ensure no quorum to debate itA letter has been doing rounds on social media since Saturday showing that he has withdrawn the motion. The letter was addressed to speaker Alex Magelo. I wish to withdraw a notice of motion filed pursuant to Section 33 of the county Government Act, 2012 and Standing Order 60, reads the letter.Magelo said he found the letter on his desk on Monday morning and refereed it to the clerk for advise."I was told the letter was brought here by honorable Mark Ndungu. I took it to the clerk because there is no way I can approve a letter to withdraw a motion that I have already suspended," said Magelo.Magelo said Nyangwara was in Mombasa at the time letter was purportedly written. But speaking on phone, Ndungu declined to confirm or deny dropping the letter in the speaker's office."I can't talk now. We can talk tomorrow. I'm in a place i cannot talk. Please let's talk tomorrow," Ndungu said when asked about the source of the letter.The speaker suspended the debate on the motion on Wednesday following a court order obtained by the City boss on Monday, barring the county assembly from doing so until the case is heard and determined.The High Court Order also prohibited the assembly from summoning the governor to defend himself against the accusations in the motion.Read: Nairobi assembly to challenge court order stopping debate on Kidero sackingMagelo had on October 5 summoned Kidero to appear before the MCAs to defend himself .Nyangwara had accused Kidero of incompetence, lack of leadership and violating procurement laws.Last Tuesday, the session to debate the motion was adjourned after the house failed to raise a quorum of 43 members.All the Cord and more than 20 Jubilee MCAs boycotted the sitting. The assembly has been in turmoil since the motion to impeach the governor was tabled.MCAs brawled on September 29 when Nyangwara attempted to table the motion. The motion was finally tabled on September 4 in a stormy session.Also read: [VIDEO] Nairobi MCAs throw punches as Kidero impeachment motion tabled