A witness has denied implicating four Nairobi government askaris in the murder of a hawker three years ago.Ann Njahira, a widow, also dismissed allegations by the defence that she received Sh100,000 from Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko to implicate the four in her husband's killing. She was testifying in a case in which Ambani Akasi, alias Wasiwasi, Alfred Maranya, alias Ogesi, Marigo Protus, alias Sarara, and Julius Ochieng are charged with murdering her Irungu Kamau in the city centre. They are suspected to be behind the killings of several hawkers in the city. Njahira told High Court judge James Wakiaga her husband was stabbed with a kitchen knife by the four at Nyam Hotel on Duruma Road on September 16,2011. She said he was hiding there. Njahira said after he was stabbed, she rushed him to Guru Nanak Hospital while unconscious. The court heard that Kamau was later transferred to Kiambu Hospital, where he named the four as the askaris who stabbed him. He died undergoing treatment. Njahira said on material day, the four approached hawkers on Duruma Road in two county vehicles and started chasing them. During cross-examination by defence lawyer Osoro Mogikoyo, she denied that she was given money by Sonko to frame the four. "You gave the names of the four askaris after the senator gave Sh100,000 to whoever volunteers to give information on how to arrest the rogue county askaris," asked the lawyer. Mogikoyo told the court Njahira was lying because her husband was stabbed during a demonstration by hawkers rotesting against the killing of their colleague Mark Chalo five days earlier. He tabled newspaper cuttings showing that the day Kamau was allegedly killed, hawker were not working as all of them were on protest. Njahira denied allegations that she recorded three different statements. She also denied that she was influenced to implicate the four in the murder so they are sacked for hawkers to continue with their work. Mogikoyo asked her whether it is true she framed the accused because they were frustrating them to carry out their hawking which she denied. The witness denied that they carried out several demonstrations within the city centre chatting people from Nyanza and western to go back to their counties along Nairobi Governors office in order to remove the four from the Nairobi county. Defence also informed the court that the deceased died to injuries caused by Kenya police and not the city askaris in court since they were not responsible of calming down hawkers during demonstrations. Earlier Governor Evans Kidero in a statement had defended the officers, saying criminals are responsible for the deaths. He said criminal gangs have invaded trading centres, impersonating hawkers and masquerading as county personnel. The four were charged after Director of Public Prosecutions Keriako Tobiko directed them to be charged with murder following a complaint from Sonko. The senator had threatened to resign unless authorities took action against rogue askaris.