Knut Siaya branch wants the Education CS Fred Matiangi to revoke the interdiction letters and re-instate the Education officials he recently sacked over the exams bearing the governs portrait.The KNUT officials led by Rarieda Branch Treasurer George Arek told Matiangi to reinstate the sacked Education officials or else they will block his new officers from accessing the offices and deter them from receiving examination papers. We know that it s the sacked Education officials who are expected to receive the National examination papers and if he (Matiangi) does a mistake of replacing them, the new officials will find Siaya hot for them, said ArekSpeaking to Journalists in Siaya town, the officials claimed that they will not allow officers punished for a printing error that occurred on the Evaluation papers that was sponsored by Siaya governor Cornel Rasanga. The Evaluation papers were done in every part of the Country including Nairobi schools why could he punish those in Nairobi and Rural home. He will not succeed in his mission, they vowed.The officers are innocent and never participated in the examination and it s the Ministry that delayed remitting funds to the schools and that s why Kepsha and Knut that approached the governor for funds to sponsor exams.We are aware that Matiangi wants our students to fail and that s why he is stopping our pupils from doing assessments but will do all to stop his skewed schemes adding that if in two weeks they Matiangi fails to act, Teachers will down tools, he addedHis remarks comes barely a day after On his part, Knut chairman in Siaya County Clement Omollo maintained that the CS should stop politicizing education matters, noting that the governor had just acted on poor parents request to give their children an assessment before the national examinations due this month. As Knut we have come to conclusion that no law was broken because no money was paid or collected from the parents. Siaya is among the top performing counties in the republic in the last two years. Let the exam be completed at school level, he said. We don t want the ministry to act selectively. Sacking of the officials was unprocedural, they should have been asked to show cause why. The directors never participated in the organisation of the exams, he added.On Tuesday, Class Eight candidates and their teachers were shocked when they were given mock exam papers bearing the portrait of the governor.The portraits sparked criticism on social media, with Kenyans accused the governor of campaigning for re-election using the examinations.