Under the old Constitution, a Kenyan President had far more room for manoeuvre when it came to the carrots that must be dangled in the direction of eminent regional leaders.He could offer them the vice presidency; alternatively, what used to be known as senior cabinet ministries . And of course, he only had to make good on his promise after reelection.In the new constitutional dispensation, there is no such option. The Deputy President must be whoever was the President's running mate. And there is a Cabinet of technocrats, rather than prominent politicians.This makes for a very different type of presidential campaign. One in which the President can really only offer financial support and development projects as carrots to lure opposition politicians. For opposition parties, on the other hand, the problem remains much the same as in 1992 with the return of multiparty politics: how to choose a single presidential candidate who stands a good chance of defeating the incumbent. This is made even more difficult by the fact that historically Kenyan Presidents have never failed to get reelected, one way or another.And yet in every election right from 1992 to 2013, a clear 20 years those supporting the President were actually a demographic minority. The bulk of the population supported one opposition leader or another, usually splintering the opposition vote.The trick then, for a Kenyan President, is to ensure maximum turnout in his own backyard, while doing everything possible to ensure he faces a divided opposition.This is why the opposition coalition has taken a very prudent step in postponing the process of selecting their single presidential candidate all the way to early next year.Cord knows only too well the moment the opposition presidential candidate is named, Jubilee Party operatives will get to work in the political backyards of the two opposition chiefs who have lost out. There will be no shortage of Jubilee field operatives ready to spread a message that their regional kingpin has been betrayed and they might as well join the President's Jubilee Party since we all know Kenyan Presidents do not lose at the ballot box anyway. The strategy then, is to keep hope alive among all regions known to support Cord, by suggesting there is every chance their candidate will receive the nomination of the united opposition parties.This alone, of course, cannot in any way guarantee victory in 2017. But at least it buys Cord time to figure out how best to go about selecting their presidential candidate, without giving the governing Jubilee Party the opportunity to divide them.