Innocent Simiyu has been appointed Kenya Sevens head coach. Simiyu has been granted a two-year contract.Making the announcement yesterday, Kenya Rugby Union chairman Richard Omwela said Simiyu came out tops during the interviews. He takes over from Benjamin Ayimba, who served only for one season within which he guided the team to win the Singapore leg of the circuit last season and qualified the team for the Rio Olympics. He also amassed Kenya s second highest points total of 98 points.Omwela said Simiyu has been given leeway to bring in an assistant coach. Innocent has been given a free hand to bring an assistant coach. Whether it will be from Impala or from another club, it will be his own choice. We at the board will approve, added Omwela.Simiyu appointment is the culmination of a two-week of interview sessions and head hunting of coaches across the globe. Initially, the union had sounded out New Zealand legendary Sevens coach Gordon Tietjens of New Zealand but he opted to take up the vacant Samoa job, instead forcing the union to cancel the unveiling of coaches last week.Simiyu, who has Level 2 coaching certification, has 32 caps for Kenya Sevens where he grounded 58 world Series tries. He captained Kenya Sevens team from 2006-2008 and skippered the Kenya 15s side to victory in the 2010 Victoria Cup. He comes from a rugby family that also includes former national team captain Victor Sudi and younger brother Nato Simiyu. He also has coaching experience having managed his old club Impala RFC in 2012, succeeding Bill Githinji until 2014 after coming from a career knee threatening injury picked in 2011 while playing for Cheetahs in the Bamburi Rugby Super Series.Also appointed are Ian Gibbons (strength and conditioning coach), Lameck Bongonko (physio) and Eric Ogweno team manager, replacing Newton Ongalo. Kevin Wambua got the nod for the Women s head coach and will work with Samuel Njogu (strength and conditioning), Ben Mahinda (physio) and Camilyne Oyuayo (team manager).Simiyu s first assignment will be the Dubai Sevens where Kenya face France, Australia and Japan on December 2-3. Omwela said they had not set targets for the technical bench and that will be communicated in due course.Director of national squads Oscar Mango said the two squads that did duty at the Safari Sevens last month will start their training by the end of the week. We do have the squad that did play last month at Safari Sevens so we will ask them to avail themselves by the end of the week so as to start our preparations ahead of the world series, added Mango.