Jubilee Party leaders in Coast have endorsed Kilifi North MP Gideon Mung'aro as the region's kingpin as part of their strategy to destabilise ODM strongholds.They have also fronted the MP for Kilifi governor race ahead of the 2017 general election; and to restructure the region's politics."We have a responsibility of not only development, but [also] taking the people of the region to another level. That is why after 2013 we resolved to join the government where resolutions are made," Mung'aro said.Kilifi North MP Gideon Mung'aro and Kwale Woman rep Zainab Chidzuga greet Jubilee supporters during the launch of Coast campaign, September 15. /ALPHONCE GARIMung aro also highlighted on the benefits the region has received since they joined the government which was impressive and evident all over.He also reminded residents to accept their decision to support the government, just as the late Ronald Ngala broke KADU-Asili to join Kanu.More on this: Coast remains ODM stronghold, Kilifi governor says as Jubilee tour looms"Coast cannot deliver alone, but requires constructive politics. We can stay for over 150 years without bargaining power. As a region, we need to plan so as to have a base," he said.Jubilee party leaders at the home of Kilifi North MP Gideon Mung'aro after his installation as Coast kingpin, September 15. /ALPHONE GARIHe was speaking during the launch of Jubilee's Coast campaign on Thursday in a bid to gain support for the party within the region.The launch was attended by thousands of supporters as well as several MPs, MCAs and aspirants.Supporters dressed in Jubilee Party attire held banners portraying President Uhuru Kenyatta, DP William Ruto and Mung'aro as they chanted.Kilifi North MP Gideon Mung'aro with his wife, father Maitha Mung'aro at their Dabaso Home during the launch of the Coast campaigns, September 15. /ALPHONCE GARIAmong them were former Garsen MP Danson Mungatana, Kilifi South MP Mustafa Idd, Kwale woman rep Zainab Chidzuga and nominated Senators Emma Mbura and Mvita Kisasa.Others were Kilifi county council chair Esther Kache, Watamu MCA Ibrahim Matumbo and Lunga Lunga MP Khatib Mwashetani.Mungatana dismissed Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho's claims that he was kingpin. The former Garsen MP said Joho is too young politically and has no influence beyond Mombasa.Read: Joho s meteoric rise could be his downfall"Joho should wear his dress and stay at home to sleep. As coast we want to hear one voice. We joined Jubilee by choice with an agenda [and] opposition will not give us anything or budget. Just mere words," he said.[VIDEO] I am too expensive for Jubilee Party to buy - JohoHe explained that historically the kingpin of Coast, from the late Ronald Ngala, Jembe Mwakalu and Karisa Maitha, hailed from Kilifi County and that is why Mung aro is fit for the position.Mustafa accused Joho and Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi for being in the opposition for their personal gain."Being in opposition won t help address our problems. Research has shown Uhuru will retain his seat," Idd said.The leaders vowed to begin a major campaign covering all the constituencies in the region, beginning with Mombasa county s Likoni and Kisauni, which are Joho's home turf.