It is any political party s dream to wear a six-piece suit . This is political metaphor for fielding victorious candidates for Ward, Governor, Senate, Parliament, Woman Rep and President. The concept of a six-piece suit means that the party, its position and policies are supported right down to the grassroot giving it the necessary clout to get things done. It also means that the party will get the Speaker and majority leader positions in the County Assemblies and also in both Houses of Parliament. Once known as a three-piece suit , the new dispensation doubled it, greatly complicating our electioneering in the process. It also worsened our disreputable voting queues, and like the last time, some impatient women found solace in carrying a baby to the queue so that they would be called to the front. Some babies entered the voting booth several times. Other than that, our campaigns are now set to be even more intense with many individuals jostling for the six positions. Fresh candidates will be banking on the fact that 70% of incumbents never go back. Broken SuitsThe concept of a three-piece suit , named after the archetypal dress of the English gentleman, was fully implementable in the era of the single party. When we moved to multi-partyism, this was only possible in the candidate s strongholds. When we moved to coalition arrangements, the integrant parties were allowed to field candidates in the areas of percieved strength while channeling all the presidential votes to their party leader. However, there were instances where the voters voted several non-affiliated parties. Sometimes the voter, gave the job to a party that was not affiliated to the coalition. Migori Governor Zachary Obado for instance emerged in the PDP in an ODM stronghold. Bungoma Governor Ken Lusaka in the NFK and Vihiga s Moses Akaranga in the PPK spoilt the party for ODM which deemed Western Kenya as its territorial stronghold. The same was replicated in numerous other areas and many counties where the Senator and Governor are not of the same party. This introduced the whole concept of broken suits different parties but same presidential candidate. In voting for non-affiliated parties, the wise voter is saying, respect my mind. This is the essence of democracy, not the herd mentality our politicians drive us to.Dominance by integrationJubilee is thinking differently. When it merged with small parties, it was also introducing the narrative of dominance by integration, and so the idea of a six-piecer is what they are aiming for. They have indicated clearly that they will not allow non-affilliated parties to field candidates in the name of Jubilee. A section of the Press has quoted House Majority leader Adan Duale as saying that they will not allow this to happen even though several parties have already stated they will do so. Jubilee is however powerless over this situation because the whole idea of dominance in the greatly expanded democratic space in Kenya, is no longer teneable even in its percived strongholds. Even though it supported the ban on party hopping , this is no guarantee that it will have desired dominance on the ground. Jostling for JubileeThis coming election will attract a record number of candidates. Some are saying it could conservatively be about four times the number in the last election. The Jubilee ticket will be the most sought after and therefore the most fought over. If Jubilee primaries will not be deemed fair it will open itself to competition from smaller regional parties. Strong Jubilee losers may work to split the party in the ground thereby letting the candidate of the other party to win. Usually the loser and his bitter base may opt to vote for a nondescript person to teach the other or the party a lesson. Secondly, aspirants from small parties but with good money will engage in bloodbaths against Jubilee candidates particularly those with lesser money even in their strongholds. Even Independent candidates with a plausible chance of getting elected and with the requisite resources, are likely to give a run for Jubilee candidates. Independent candidates will not get into expensive primaries while having the guarantee of being on the ballot. Spoiling the partyThere are those who are bitterly opposed to Jubilee the party while they love Uhuru Kenyatta as their president. There are many current Jubilee leaders who have created powerful ememies on the ground and some of them have created new parties. Those parties will not field presidential candidates will be the first to dress down Jubilee candidates. They will say Hey, vote for us down here, vote for Jubilee up there Already, Nicholas Biwott s NVP party has publicly declared this as their position. In fact The CCM is also (quietly) supporting this position as is Kanu. All these three are powerful regional parties in Jubilee strongholds. These parties will then ensure that Jubilee s six-piecer is spoilt. Why IEBC is not everythingJubilee supported the the ban on party hopping to prevent pockets of its base being taken by non-affiliate parties. Usually those who deem the nominations as unfair, will always troop to the next party and be on the ballot. Jubilee has said it will use the IEBC to ensure that the elections are free and fair . Free and fair is more of a mirage than reality. The IEBC has failed before on a monumental scale and is yet to get it right in terms of elections. If they conduct the nominations, the situation is not likely to change significantly. Other than that, Kenyan politicians are mainly ego-driven and are also bad losers. Even if the IEBC will be free and fair , these losers will not allow their loss to stop them and will use their base to work against the party. In the ODM, the loser Margaret Wanjiru moved out profusely blaming her party for letting her down She has now become a leading light in Jubilee and I hope that she can accept the outcome of an IEBC-led nomination. Timing of nominationsTiming is everything in nominations. You have to time yourself is such a way that your losers will not move to shape things in the opposition. While indeed the party hopping ban was aimed at containing this, timing is still everything. Because Independent candidates will not be wasting their energy and money on primaries, they will hit the campaigns starting from the front. The timing of nominations will therefore affect the Jubilee candidates energy levels if it placed too close to the deadline. The money at playThis election will be all about money. You know this when the price of sugar begins to rise close to elections. It means the fat cats are looking for money to wash us all brown. Jubilee s edge will be the money they are willing to put on the table. But politics as in love, money is not everything. Former Kilome MP and Makueni senatorial candidate Harun Mwau repeatedly (and painfully) learnt this fact. In Embu, Lenny Kivuti s money is seen as his edge which is why Cecily Mbarire seems scared. This however is music to the ears of incumbent Governor Wambora who may just send the two home. Jostling for JubileeBeing in power, Jubilee s ticket will be much sought after. While all the moths will be jostling for a position on the light, it will be easy for a candidate in a different party to sneak go in without breaking a sweat. The jostling for the Jubilee Nairobi gubernatorial ticket in 2013 gave the seat to Cord on a silver platter. They are now the wiser for the strategic blunders that cost them the seat. Even then, all the power men (and woman) are already jostling for the Nairobi gubernatorial seat Jubilee which is trying to get the right tribal balance in their candidates. They may just play into the hands of Kidero.Campaign skills and propagandaAnother cause for broken suits is the campaign skills of the opposing candidate. A self-confident, smooth-talking but poor man will always win the heart of the fair lady against a wealthy but uncommunicative man. In politics, the same has applied before. In 1997 in Bureti, moneyed candidates Prof. Jonathan Ngeno and former PS Josiah Sang fell down in the hands of little known but great talking teacher Paul Kipkorir Sang. Sang had taken for himself the nickname Chaman buch which literally means love me for nothing . There are many populist candidates out there who, with the right nicknames, strategies, gift of the garb and other essential skills who will shift the tables particularly against moneyed Jubilee candidates. There are many Chaman buchs ready to dole out hot air and run aground Jubilee candidates.EndorsementsEndorsements are the bane of Kenyan elections. Voters are told that they are doing the will of the big man by voting in a specific candidate, usually an unpopular party honcho closely tied to the big man . In this era of open democracy, endorsement may kill a candidates chances just as much as it will make it. CS Eugene Wamalwa got an open endorsement from Deputy President William Ruto. This endorsement has however complicated things for him because a number of Jubilee candidates are now ganging up against him. In fact Dennis Waweru s closeness with the Deputy President was beginning to work against him and he seems to have seen the cue and has moved to quietly fight his own battles. Overt endorsements in this era of political can severely damage one s candidature. However, high profile politicians love endorsing their friends or individuals they feel they can work with. The politicians who have successfully endorsed candidates are Oginga Odinga and now Raila Odinga. Daniel Moi also profusely endorsed a number of candidates in some areas outrightly imposing them on the people. Endorsements however are not without murmurs and in some places have led open rebellion thereby threatening the clout of the endorser. If Jubilee will make any endorsement, it could seriously backfire and open it to broken suits.