The Kenya Defence Forces has set up a border command unit to counter the infiltration of al Shabaab terrorists into the country, Chief of Defence Forces Samson Mwathethe said on Friday.He said KDF will continue to support the National Police Service and other national security organs to maintain law and order. The newly proposed border command will play a major role in securing our porous border with Somalia. In this regard, additional deployments to secure our border with Somalia from Mandera to Lamu will continue to be undertaken. Static, mobile roadblocks and checkpoints will continue to be mounted to prevent the entry of al Shabaab, ISIS and other terror groups, Mwathethe said.He was speaking during the fifth KDF Day commemoration at Mtongwe Barracks in Mombasa. The formation of the unit comes as intelligence reports indicate al Shabaab increased its activities along the Kenya-Somalia border in September.There are also reports that heavily armed al Shabaab fighters have been settling in villages along the border to escape KDF and Amisom troops in the Gedo and Juba regions.KDF to remain in somaliaGen Mwathethe said KDF will continue to maintain its presence in Somalia until our objectives and those of the international community are achieved, including security for Kenyans and the restoration of peace and stability in Somalia .He said such a commemoration and celebrations are historical because the military honours fallen comrades and pays tribute to those who continue to dedicate their lives to defend their nation. In all cases, this day is dedicated to remembering the contributions, both present and past, of those who have served or continue to serve in the military. It is a day we remember our colleagues who have paid the ultimate price in defence of our motherland, Mwathethe said. This is a day we commit to remembering all military personnel who have served this nation with dedication and those who continue to serve in defence of our country and our people. Mwathethe said KDF s operations in Somalia over the past five years have proved that Kenya is capable of protecting herself and that KDF can operate effectively against any enemies on land, sea and air.Mwathethe said KDF will continue to send a loud message to Kenya s enemies that we are ready at all times to defend our values, way of life, collective will and sovereignty .He said KDF soldiers will continue to be servants of the people and put their lives on line at all times to defend the country. Mwathethe urged officers to remain alert and vigilant to defeat enemies.