Over Sh1million shillings was raised for ailing Ulinzi Stars head coach Robert Matano to further surgery on Monday at the Mater Hospital.Addressing a well attended fund raising meeting on Wednesday evening, Matano said he was now responding well from a throat infection and was looking forward to a successful operation on Monday that is aimed at unlocking a traumatic system in his stomach.Matano admitted he is slowly improving as he had been unable to walk from his bed just a few days back. My doctors have recommended for an operation that has been booked for Monday at Mater Hospital in (Nairobi) South B . After a week, God willing, the doctors will tell me the progress, he said. When I returned from Rwanda two months ago after the regional Military Games I started feeling bad. My kidneys failed. My wife and a few friends rushed me to Coptic Hospital. Luckily enough, I got Kenyan Premier League medical representative Dr. Andrew Sule who even stood surety for our deposit since we could not raise the money that was being demanded. I m also grateful to the KPL clubs who brought in Sh160,000. Ulinzi Stars chipped in with Sh39,000that has enabled me to honour my weekly dialysis check up which is damn expensive, said Matano.The former Sofapaka,Tusker and Ulinzi trainer however remains thankful to Kenyans and well wishers for their steadfast prayers that have kept him going. He thanked the fundraising committee chaired by Kenya Football Coaches Association chairman Ricky Solomon for their inspiring job. Today its me and tomorrow it might be you, he said.At the fund-raising, Vihiga Governor Moses Akaranga donation of Sh100,000, Ulinzi Stars executive committee brought Sh100,000 through vice chairman Joe Birgen.Other donations came from Makadara Legislator Benson Mutura Sh50,000, FKF president Nick Mwendwa Sh80,000, KPL chat Sh61,000,Elyna Shiveka Sh55,200,Sjak secretary General Mike Okinyi Sh22,000, California MCA Hashim Kamau Sh10,000, football promoter Francis Mureithi Sh10,000, and Sam Nyamweya who pledged Sh20,000 among other prominent sports administrators.Also in attendance were KPL coaches led by Francis Kimanzi (Mathare FC), Zedekiah Zico Otieno (Posta Rangers), Ken Kenyatta (Ushuru FC), Benjamin Nyangweso (Ulinzi, Austin Oduor (former Gor Mahia captain), Gilbert Selebwa (former AFC Leopards coach), Jacob Ghost Mulee (Former Kenya national team coach), and FKF Nairobi East Chairman Michael Ouma among others.