There is an old English saying: if gold rusts what will iron do? Francis Xavier ole Kaparo is, no doubt, out to do a good job. He has tried, with the limited means at his disposal, to be present at every spot where national cohesion is threatened by inter-ethnic conflicts, inflammatory speeches and so on. What is most unfortunate is that I do not remember any senior government official ever coming to the aid of the former Speaker of the National Assembly whenever he has to confront these ugly incidents. If anything, his lone interventions has created more hope than solutions, more disappointment in his office when such incidents recur after his departure. The mistake is not to be found in ole Kaparo s office. The problem is systemic.Be that as it may, let us go back to our old English adage: if gold rusts what will iron do? In the matter of national cohesion, or, to put it another way, absence of a strong national ethos and integration, gold has been rusting literally since independence. The nation has continuously been rotting from the top in terms of the social and political forces putting people apart rather than bringing people together. In this regard Francis Xavier ole Kaparo has a very difficult task to perform. Except for the first Kenyatta Government formed in 1963 and the NARC Government in 2002, no other government has been greeted with a national warm welcome in our history. And in both governments cited here, their downfall--which did not take that long in both cases--can easily be explained by ethnic intolerance, suspicion, mistrust and selfishness. Once that original sin was committed, the history that followed was tragically haunted by the spectre of what Tom Mboya used to call ethnic particularism. So if we are going to help Francis Xavier ole Kaparo do his job well let us not think for one minute that he is going to achieve anything spectacular alone. What Kaparo is trying to do will only make sense if we honestly and squarely address the context in which he is doing it. Our constitution is very clear on this. But we very rarely refer to it when we are faced with a task such as ole Kaparo s. The constitution recognises that we are a multi-cultural, multi-ethnic and multi-party democratic state and society in which ALL institutions and processes should reflect, as much as possible, this mosaic of the Kenyan nation and society. It also recognises the diversity in our demographic profile between men and women, young and old, able and disabled. To encourage national cohesion and harmony, these diversities need to be taken into account in both the public and the private spheres. Government, as it were, has no option but to take a lead in this and to lead by example. Notwithstanding whatever happened in the past, our present Constitution provides us with an opportunity to initiate a new political culture. It says very clearly that in constituting any institution consideration must be given to the national character of our republic. It is from this principle that the one third/two thirds gender rule was derived. It is also from this principle that the 30% rule in the ethnic composition in county government was derived. It is from this principle that Ole Kaparo has done an ethnic audit of staff and students in universities. His assessment should continue to cover all aspects of government and public life. The end result is rather easy to predict. The government will no doubt be found lacking in providing good leadership in promoting national cohesion.Good leaders are men and women who make a positive difference in people s lives in the organisations, institutions or movements they lead. In 1910, the Kenyan people promulgated a constitution which, after many years of struggle, gave us the opportunity to create a more democratic and inclusive society. But principles and laws by themselves cannot do much: for them to make a difference in people s lives they must be put in practice by men and women who believe in them and are committed to make a positive difference in people s lives by applying them in practice.Mwalimu Julius Nyerere once made a very famous and interesting statement. He noted that the Tanzanian constitution gave him so much power as a president that were he to exercise all those powers as given he would be the worst dictator Tanzania would have to put up with. While Nyerere was saying this, Hastings Banda of Malawi was busy relishing in his dictatorial powers. Asked by Phillip Short whether he thought he was being accused wrongly for being a dictator, he replied, rather confidently: Yes I am a dictator; but I am a dictator the people of Malawi choose to put up with. Our national cohesion will be achieved or lost depending on what type of leaders we nurture and give responsibility to lead in the various institutions and organisations that form the architecture of our government and society. The constitution has given us the broad principles of doing this. Parliament has enacted laws for operationalizing these principles and creating institutions, like Kaparo s, to ensure that these principles are put in practice. What is really critical is to put in positions of responsibility men and women who are crusaders for these principles. And this is where the gold and iron scenario comes in.I am afraid that we got it wrong when we were framing our constitution when it comes to the issue of preventing our gold from rusting. The leadership of a nation is a very important matter. It cannot be left to chance. It must be deliberately engineered. That is why we had such contentious debates at Bomas of Kenya when we were framing our constitution. Good national leadership must be held up to the gold standard not the iron standard. The received practice that we form our national leadership through a presidential first past the goal post winner-take-all provision will always continue to undermine our national cohesion whatever Kaparo does now and in the future. Parties which form a government will tend to do so with regard to their support base. If this support base is confined to certain ethnic groups the composition of government will reflect this ethnic bias. The whole thing will then be cascaded to other institutions in society. We need to rethink this aspect of our Constitution and find a much more INCLUSIVE framework for forming governments, at the national and county levels, that will be more amenable to national cohesion. I will continue to fight for a parliamentary system of government in this regard.While good political leadership must indeed be deliberately engineered, political values need to be learnt and inculcated into people through social processes that begin much earlier in life. In the nineteen sixties Professor Ken Prewitt, while doing research at the Institute for Development Studies at the University of Nairobi, edited a very interesting book on Education and Political Values in East Africa. In this book the various authors discussed how education was shaping the minds and attitudes of the future adult citizens of East Africa. Would they, for example, value being East Africans? Did they understand what African Socialism meant and how would this shape their day to day behaviour? Maybe it is time we wrote another book on Education and Political Values in Kenya more than 50 years since Professor Prewitt did his. In this book we should find out whether our children are taught anything valuable about national cohesion. It is unfortunate that national cohesion was, at one time during the Nyayo era, reduced to something called patriotism defined simply as supporting your government in a rather sycophantic manner. As the history of Eastern Europe shows following the Fall of the Berlin Wall, such patriotism is always skin deep and very often founded on fear or risk evasion. Likewise, rabid ethnic particularism is also largely based on fear and risk evasion. Should we nurture some leadership keenly committed to the politics of inclusion and national cohesion, it will not impossible to get rid of this vice in our national life.