If you are an elected member of Parliament or member of County Assembly, statistically, you have a 0.3 to 0.35 chance of being re-elected. Conversely, if you are an aspirant, you have a 0.65 to 0.7 chance of being elected, if you are challenging an incumbent. In short, it is much easier to get elected than it is to get re-elected in Kenya. In both situations however, many assumptions that have been made and indeed many factors will come to play during any electoral contest in Kenya that eventually determine the outcome. Some of these include the prevailing political climate, choice of party, ethnic and sub-ethnic (clan) factors, religious affiliation, gender, regional considerations, voter perception, campaign skills, voter turnout, and of course resources. In Kenya s multipolar politics, it is quite difficult to truly say how someone will get elected or re-elected but for sure, Kenyans have a notoriously high turnover of elected leaders particularly those with open-ended terms like MPs and now MCAs. In the last five elections, we have returned less than 30% of incumbent MPs and indeed the same is likely to be replicated next year, unless you have a fixed-term position. Fixed term positionsIn fixed term positions like the President and Governor (serving two non-renewable terms), incumbents have a much greater chance of retaining their seats. This is probably because voters understand that there is no possibility of them overstaying their welcome. According to Dr. Nic Cheeseman of Oxford, incumbent African Presidents facing the ballot have an 88% chance of retaining their seats. Of course Dr. Cheeseman takes into consideration the fact that a good number of African leaders will do anything to remain in power. In all, they are not so easy to remove whether or not the election is deemed free and fair. This is probably why two of Raila Odinga s three presidential bids failed because he was challenging incumbents who needed to remain in power. With that you can see what he is up against next year. Americans however have a much higher rate of re-election of incumbents. David C. Huckabee in his book Reelection Rates of Incumbents notes that congressional incumbents have a 90-percent and above success rate . He based his findings on a study of US elections from 1790 to 1994. You will find individuals like 87-year old Democrat John Dingell who was a congressman continuously since 1955 until his retirement in January last year. He served a total of 59 years. In the US Senate, Robert Byrd holds the record for longest serving senator. He retired in 2010 having served 57 years. In short, it is easier to be re-elected in America than it is in Kenya. Longest servingThe longest serving member of Parliament was Daniel Moi who began his legislative career in 1955 and ended a continuous unbroken stay in Parliament in 2002 a total of 47 years. Most of that time however, he did not face any competition and in fact was largely elected unopposed through his entire time. Laikipia Senator GG Kariuki who began his political career in the early sixties, is celebrating more than a half century in politics although he has not been serving continuously. Most others cannot speak like these two. The average term for most MPs is no more than two terms. Why then is it so difficult to defend one s seat here. Competitive electionsThe reason for low re-election of incumbents in Kenya can in part be attributed to competition. Kenyan elections are highly competitive, perhaps some of the most politically competitive democracies. There are far too many individuals seeking elective office. In the elections of 1974, Kenya 740 candidates were chasing the 158 seats in Parliament. The number rose to 750 in 1979 and also in 1983 the figures remained like they were in 1974. In short, an average of 21% of all the aspirants including the incumbents will be elected. That is to say there is a failure rate of 79% and that is too high. Of those who will get elected, an average of 70% would be newcomers or at least those who are returning from the cold having once before been elected. Only 30% would be incumbents. In 2007 for instance 37% of incumbents retained their seats. The figure in 2013 would not be accurate since we were now directly electing 337 individuals to the National Assembly up from 210 not counting new outfits like the Senate and County assemblies who would not be compared with anything else. With the coming elections, the re-election statistic is not expected to be any different. This is because Kenyan voter behaviour is still the same as it was before. Besides, the elections are expected to fit their billing as the most competitive in Kenya s history.Democracy and CompetitionCompetition is key for any election to qualify as a democratic. If you find seats going in unopposed, then you disqualify yourself as a democracy. In the 1988 infamous Mlolongo election , some 65 Parliamentary seats went unopposed or the candidates did not need to go the ballot. While indeed every politician dreads even hates competition, it is truly the essence of democracy. Competition however must have limits. Too many aspirants running for a specific seat could easily weaken democracy. Other than confusing the voter, there are chances of mistakes happening from which irregularities arise. Too much political competition brings in feelings of distrust to electoral authorities and also can set the stage for politically motivated violence and even assassination. You see that our elections since 1992 have been characterized by violence and that is because of the extremely competitive nature of our politics. Violence drawn from competition is not unique to elections. You will also observe the same phenomenon in sports particularly league championship football where hooliganism, racism and physical violence is rife. Another characteristic of highly competitive elections is a continuous election mood in the country. In Kenya, you will find that preparation for the next election begins almost as soon as the election is completed. There will be statements and demands issued, copious criticism of the incumbent and scheming against them in bars, fundraisers, funerals and public events. Our politicking has since moved to social media where you see the vibrancy of political activism continues unabated. There have been mechanisms of limiting aspirants including signature requirements (pre-electoral endorsement), academic qualifications, financial deposits and, like in the presidential vote, winning a certain threshold before being declared the winner. The Elections of 2017The elections in 2017 are likely to be much more competitive than previous elections. Prior to the last election in 2013, people did not quite understand what each if the new seats would look like. In fact the position of Governor was not given the same kind of currency it now has. Even the position of MCA was likened to that of the old Constitution s position of Councillor which was much ridiculed and avoided by serious people. Now people know the value of these seats which will definitely attract heavy-weight candidates. The moneyed positions of Governor and MCA will face fierce competition. Some analysts have indicated that we are likely to have about 4 times the last number of candidates and the most sought after seats will be those with money (that is every seat). A good number of Senators and many other individuals are preparing to unseat incumbent governors. They would however have to work very hard because these leaders will be waiting with a war-chest that could match anyone.Losing an electionAs for MPs and MCAs and even Senators, there is generally a great danger of being dumped by the voters for a number of reasons. In the constantly shifting sands of politics, many new factors often come into play during the new electoral season and by this time, the public mood and perception of their leader will have greatly changed. New political alliances, euphoric movements and (re)alignments often wreak havoc to many political careers. Although the perception of poor performance is the largest contributor to rejection at the ballot, it is not the only determinant of failure. Important other factors include falling out of favour with party honchos or the party leader and new endorsements by the party leader of someone new. Curse of IncumbencyFinally, incumbency means you are constantly on the spotlight. In a nation with widespread poverty, people look for leaders to solve their problems in a flash a sort of Superman (or woman). If this doesn t happen, the people clear the deck and look for a new set of leaders. The fear of failure in elections has caused considerable concern among sitting members. So insecure were these MPs that they voted a pension for themselves if they served for only two terms. Even that did not seem to settle them and indeed they tried to change the law further to get a pension after just one term sitting! In all, if you get to elective office, you need to establish yourself because, chances are you could easily find yourself standing in the breadline.