One of the challenges that you will face in your entrepreneurial journey is the word: NO. It will come in various forms from a plain no to a polite letter wishing you the best in your future endeavours . In any case, the entity is not interested (at the moment or ever) in doing business with you, and this can be traumatising for any entrepreneur. Also, there s the issue of frequency. Your idea could be grilled and disapproved often before it s finally accepted. So, how does the entrepreneur survive and thrive. Here s how.It s normal: First, let me minimise or eliminate the shock factor. You have to understand that rejection is part of the game. Make peace with the fact that no is normal; settle it. JK Rowling s first Harry Potter manuscript was rejected 12 times before it was published. So don t be shocked when your idea isn t quickly received; the rejection doesn t mean it s not brilliant. The key is to develop a thick skin. You have to be mentally ready to move on to the next door when rejected; it s the ability to move from a setback as quickly as possible. Rejection is not the end of the story. The understanding that no is normal in entrepreneurship will help you grow thick skin.Use the feedback: Once you move past the emotional strain or ego bruise that comes with rejection, you will discover how valuable feedback is to your business. Instead of rejection, think of it as your customers telling you what isn t working. You re shown where to make adjustments. Think about the comments that you get about your offering. Let no be part of your research formula. That way, your ideas would eventually be a market success.Never give up: Dealing with rejection isn t easy. Many entrepreneurs are no longer in business due to its pressure. It s awful to hear no often the emotional cost can be severe. For the entrepreneur, the loss of confidence over time tends to suck out the energy that comes with a fresh idea. With prolonged exposure to rejection some entrepreneurs despair, get depressed and ultimately quit (rejection s goal). One of the best remedies for rejection is to keep pushing until you win. When you quit, no wins, but when you press on, no becomes yes after all. Persistence will help birth your dream. So next time you re rejected, just smile, get up and move on. It s a stepping stone. Step on it and move on up.