THE biggest news of the political week was the announcement on Wednesday that the Coalition for Reforms and Democracy plans to transform itself into a political party. The Opposition coalition will become the corporate Cord Party. And although the idea will forever be characterized as reactive, this changes everything.Suddenly, instead of a Presidential elections field of multiple candidates, some of whom split big vote blocs such as the Luhya, as was the case at the 1997 General Election, two big formations, the Jubilee Party and the Cord Party, will face-off in an epic contest more akin to the 2002 polls.The 2017 contest will be the kind of poll whose broad results are known are known well in advance, the only imponderable being the margins of victory and defeat. The CP announcement was made by Cord and ODM leader Raila Odinga at the Coast, following swiftly on an idea first broached earlier the same week by his co-principal and Wiper Movement leader Kalonzo Musyoka. And then came the news that the Senator from Bungoma, Moses Wetang ula, also a Cord co-principal and the Ford Kenya leader, had asked Raila and Kalonzo to guarantee him a big, yet-to-created position akin to Chief Minister as a condition for his opting out of the Presidential nominations race.And so, suddenly, Cord, which even as late as Monday this week looked headed for a politically fatal falling out at the top over the Presidential nominations issue, appeared to have found a way of not only sticking together but introducing a whole new dynamic to the 2017 race it will now be a clash of the titans, JP versus CP.It will also be a two-horse race, once again most likely between President Uhuru Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila.JP has its Presidential ticket of the President and Deputy President William Ruto ready and raring to go. CP has yet to go through the motions of Presidential primaries and it remains unclear whether Raila will team up with Kalonzo or with ODM rising star and Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho. A Joho run would galvanise the Muslim vote bloc, which has never had a candidate for the Presidency. JP STOLE A MARCH ON CORD WITH PERFECT TIMINGThe launch of the ruling Jubilee Party earlier this month, a juggernaut of 11 merged parties, appeared to catch Cord at the worst possible time. A massive machine with all the advantages of incumbency behind it, as well as billions of shillings at its disposal, JP was launched at a time that Raila was slowly but steadily retreating into the recesses of his own Orange Democratic Movement party within Cord. About a month ago he attended a funeral in Nyanza and then embarked on a tour of Western accompanied only by Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and then onwards to the Coast. As late as Thursday, the Star reported Ford Kenya MPs Patrick Wangamati and James Lusweti saying the party will not fold to join other parties if Cord decides to merge. Wangamati said Ford Kenya enjoys a treasured and deep legacy as one of the pioneers of multi-party democracy in Kenya . The two men concluded the countrywide ODM rallies Raila had embarked on at which Governor Joho was a constant factor were an indicator the party could be planning to go it alone in the Presidential race.Previously whenever Raila went to Western, and particularly to Kakamega, he would be accompanied by many of the region s leaders, including the Senator for Kakamega, Boni Khalwale. This time both Wetang ula and Khalwale loudly complained against the apparently go-it-alone Raila, saying he degraded them by visiting their home turf without reference to them. Kalonzo s Wiper held its NEC on Tuesday and indicated it would rollout a nationwide campaign drive. When JP launched itself in a three-day multiple conventions and party dissolutions extravaganza at the Safaricom Kasarani Stadium Raila presided over ODM s 10th birthday celebrations at the Coast on the same day and time as the launch in Nairobi. Co-principals Kalonzo and Wetang ula were nowhere in sight.SUDDENLY, IT S PAYBACK TIME FOR CPBarely a month later, the massed opposition seems to have pulled a fast one on the UhuRuto administration, having strategized quietly while maintaining an apparently dysfunctional front and giving a very persuasive impression of a house divided. Although it is massively reactive, CP is not modeled on JP. Unlike JP, CP will allow its affiliate parties to field candidates on their tickets in some areas and under the Cord ticket in others.CP is instead modeled on the first Opposition formation in Kenya that toppled an incumbent regime, the National Rainbow Coalition of 2002, which knocked Kanu out in its 39th consecutive year in power.Cord s transmutation into a big party has something of the stealth element of the formation and launch of Mwai Kibaki s first non-Kanu vehicle, the Democratic Party, on December 24, 1991. Like CP s, DP s leaders had long given every impression of heading nowhere, with Kibaki, then mister for Health (demoted from VP of 10 years standing in 1988) even declaring that opposing Kanu was akin to seeking to cut down a mugumo with a kanyoi (fell an oak tree with a razor blade). When Kibaki walked out of Kanu that Christmas Eve, an astonished President Moi influenced the sacking of two people KTN s Head of News Rose Lukhalo and spymaster James Kanyotu.CP s looming registration was conceived of amid some of the worst internal turmoil to beset Cord. All three principals very badly wanted to be President. The Opposition s inability to settle on one standard bearer energized JP thoroughly and left Cord strategists in disarray. CP s launch will have at least as many parties as JP s and could feature one huge difference they could actually unveil their officials and managers on the Big Day itself. CP could therefore sidestep the massive anxiety being experienced in JP concerning powerful interim positions. CP could also steal another march on JP by having not only its party bureaucracy in place but also its full Presidential election strategy team. Inside JP, the Presidential reelection strategy team is not yet fully loaded and there is speculation about fierce infighting and tugs of war.Postponing the substantive filling of JP s senior and administrative positions may have got the Party off to a flying start but it may yet turn out to have been a stockpiling of trouble, a mere deferment of internal crisis.It is almost certain that JP, despite all its espionage and slush-funding capabilities, did not see CP coming and more surprises could be in store. For instance, ODM this week gave notice of de-whipping its rebels who decamped to JP, a move that would occasion at least a dozen by-elections. But it would cost ODM time and treasure at a time when it needs a laser focus on what will almost certainly be Raila s final stab at the Presidency.BILLION-SHILLING DEFECTOR BY-ELECTIONS ECHO 1966 KPU EVENTHowever, if ODM stands its ground and then goes on to win back these seats, this will be a mini-earthquake in the political arena and the next best thing to an Okoa Kenya Referendum victory, a defat of the government on the road to an epic general election. To this extent JP strategists will have goofed big time. On Thursday, the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission assured ODM that it is ready to conduct the by-elections if the seats are declared vacant. The IEBC told ODM it would promptly budget for the by-elections and present its figures to the National Treasury. IEBC communications manager Andrew Limo told the media: We have the capacity at any time to conduct the by-elections. The IEBC indicated it costs at least Sh200 million to hold a county by-election; Sh50 million for a constituency; and Sh18 million for a county assembly ward. ODM s fight-back against the defectors who turned JP would cost Sh1 billion. Not since the Little General Election of June 11 and 12 1966, engineered by the brilliant Kanu secretary-general Tom Mboya after 29 Kanu members defected to form the Kenya People s Union has such a series of electoral events preceded a general election in Kenya. The net result of the Little General Election was KPU winning more votes but Kanu winning more seats.All eyes will now be on Raila and his place in CP. How CP settles its Presidential nominations conundrum will be key to making the 2017 race a clash of titans. Cord s three co-chairmen Senators Johnson Muthama (Machakos) and James Orengo (Siaya) and Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu have been asked with coming up with a Presidential nominations formula that will keep the Opposition united and make CP a formidable foe of JP.CP prides itself on seeking to emulate Narc, but there is one crucial difference: When Raila endorsed Kibaki as Tosha in 2002, he was not himself a contender. What s more, Uhuru, then a political neophyte, was a much more vulnerable target 14 years ago. Whatever else happens inside the CP Presidential nominations, there will in all likelihood never be another Tosha moment. This time Raila will be on the ballot and he will be facing a very different Uhuru an incumbent President with one term under his belt and all the advantages of incumbency.