Is Jogoo House covering up disquiet among APs who are unhappy with the selection of officers for inspector training? Senior officers at the National Police Service headquarters are yet to explain the cause of the murmurs within the Administration Police Service, despite numerous inquiring visits. Some AP officers are claiming there was favouritism during the selection of the 800 officers for promotions. For instance, they say some of those picked joined the service in 2013, while those who have nearly 10 years experience and have struggled to further their education, obtaining degrees while in the service, were overlooked. The five-month training that precedes promotion to the rank of Inspector of Police is scheduled to start today. They now want Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet (pictured) to order a special audit of the exercise.*******A Cord MP from the Abagusi community is under pressure to reconsider his recent warming up to the Jubilee Party. Corridors has been told the second-term legislator developed cold feet last Sunday after his constituents exerted pressure on him, telling him he is digging his political grave by shifting his allegiance to UhuRuto. Our mole in the southern Nyanza county told Corridors that on Monday night, a group of elders from the area trooped to his homestead, where they prevailed upon him to defend his seat on the ODM ticket.********A first-term MP from the Maasai community who was elected on the TNA ticket at the 2013 election has resorted to wearing an orange necktie as an indication of his next political move. The MP was overheard yesterday in Parliament Buildings telling two colleagues he is in bad books with the Jubilee Party leadership and he has zero chances of getting a second chance in the 2017 elections through JP. The legislator went on to tell his friends who were admiring his necktie that it is only a matter of time before he joins ODM.*******Still on matters MPs, an MP from the North Rift was recently forced to go down on his knees, begging for forgiveness from his city girlfriend whom he abandoned soon after he was elected. Sources say the woman now works for an international organisation. According to a little bird who whispered to Corridors, the man, who has two children with the woman, was told she has become wealthy and is planning to fund his rival s campaigns as retaliation for abandoning her and the children. So he decided to seek forgiveness.