As the 2017 general elections approach fast, the Meru County political arena is assuming dynamic faces but on the bold context it will be Governor Peter Munya being a target of opposition from the incumbent elected leaders in 2017 general elections.Meru Senator Kiraitu Murungi will be opposing Munya who is the current chairman of the council of governors.Kiraitu has coalesced with Women Rep Florence Kajuju who will be defending her seat and Igembe South MP Mithika Linturi who will be seeking the senate seat under the Jubilee Party ticket.The three have christened a political outfit dubbed KIKALI abbreviations that stand for Kiraitu, Kajuju and Linturi.Munya who has adopted the Party of National Unity (PNU) as his preferred party is rallying a team of his County Executives to vie for various seats across the county with few of them promising to emerge winners.However adoption of PNU by Munya has suffered a major set back after the registrar of political parties Lucy Ndung u said the party has joined Jubilee Party. I have already objected to the decision by the people who attended the merger of Jubilee Party. The secretary general is the one supposed to sign the merger documents and if the registrar does not change the stand we will move to court to quash the decision. She is not the final decision in this matter. There is the tribunal, high court, constitutional court and the court of appeal. PNU is intact and that is the party I will use to run for governor in 2017 and president in 2022 , said Munya. Munya says the final decision on such issue should be made by the national delegates who will be meeting on October 28 but during the proposed congregation they will discuss on how to strengthen the party.If PNU files a case challenging the political parties registrar s decision and it drags in court such that the IEBC calendar catches up, Munya may have no alternative but to run as an independent candidate which may tear into his ambitions of nurturing PNU to be his favorite party for 2022 presidential bid.His candidature of hopping into another party may also prove an uphill task if a case filed by Senator Kiraitu seeking to bar Munya from leaving Alliance Party of Kenya derails in court which means by the time the Jubilee Party nominations are conducted he will be a member of the Jubilee Party and maybe forced to face Kiraitu at the nominations.State House is also embracing Kiraitu s leadership in Meru considering the recent appointments among them being a co-chair in the making of the Jubilee Party and as the IEBC select committee co-chair alongside Senator James Orengo.Alternately, Munya s war of words with Deputy President William Ruto could have thrown tantrums his way which can be interpreted to mean he may not enjoy any support from the presidency.With dust yet to settle over who is to blame for recently lifted ban of Miraa in Somalia which led to a loss of over Sh. 600 million to the farmers, State House has solely come out to heap a load of political responsibility on Munya.In a statement by State House Spokesman Manoah Esipisu, Munya was solely to blame for the ban having contravened an international protocol to hold discussions with a regional administration without the knowledge of the Federal Government of Somalia. In the aftermath of Munya s visit, believing that he was a legitimate representative of the Government of Kenya, the Government of the Federal Republic of Somalia took the grim view that Kenya recognized Somaliland as an independent state and so the decision to ban the Miraa imports from Kenya , said Esipisu.If Governor Munya s election as the chairman of the council of governors dealt him a big favor is that he has managed to sell his name across the nation but inversely he has suffered a major blow towards embracing a smooth working relationship with local leaders.Kiraitu and Munya both command a large following in Meru County and whoever will win the seat in the next elections is expected to win with a small margin similar to the 2013 general elections where Dr. Kilemi Mwiria lost to Munya with a paltry 3,000 votes which led to a series of election petitions from the High Court ending at the Supreme Court.Political waves are being felt across the county as the leaders tear into each other s character, suitability to lead and development achieved so far.Kajuju has been calling upon Munya to name his team and engage in sober politics.Igembe South MP Mithika Linturi and Tigania East Mpuru Aburi have been tearing into Munya s character saying he is more of a dictator than a humble leader. When the pope came to Kenya he came in a very humble way and he was not carried by a very small car and was not for a seat to his venues but sat on those that were available unlike our Governor Munya. Luke 14:11 states that those who exalt themselves will be humbled and those who humble themselves will be exalted. Just make a decision where you fall , said Linturi.In response Munya said he loves Meru so much but propaganda is being spread and insults are being hulled against him. On many occasions I have been tormented and time and over again I respond to what I am asked. When respond I am told I m insulting them. I wonder how I should be the only one to be insulted without responding. Now I am told a seat is carried for me to public rallies and I have a vehicle which makes sirens. It s a requisite for every governor not unless if the Meru governor is the only one who does not need to have one. Let s wait and see if when you become a governor you will not have such a vehicle , said Munya.Kiraitu has also severally labeled Munya as a lone ranger who works alone an issue which he says is detrimental to the development of Meru. There is no one who is perfect to work alone. The problem we have in Meru is that the governor is working alone without other leaders , said Kiraitu.However Munya disputes the allegations saying he has enough workforce and he has been a team player since when he got elected. Let s stop telling lies that I work alone. I have people who we work with. Even if they are not tall, rich or big they are people, there is no where I was told I must work with so and so , said Munya.Also met with valid reply was Linturi s quest on Munya to sack his cabinet which he claimed has already gone into politics and has abandoned the role of serving the people as public servants. Your entire cabinet is already in a campaigning spree to look for elective seats across the county. Where there is smoke there is fire and it seems that your government has lost confidence in your leadership. The earlier you dissolve the cabinet the better so that we can have a government ready to work for the people , said Linturi.Kiraitu also asked the cabinet ministers in Munya s government who are looking for seats to join Jubilee Party and go for nominations ahead of the next elections. Anybody who wants to look for votes in this county let them join the Jubilee Party because we don t want a train which is moving leaving behind other cabins , said Kiraitu. Munya however delved into the request by Kiraitu saying he sold the Bus APK party and they should stop bothering him in PNU.In rhetoric, Linturi asked for Munya s forgiveness after the governor said he is not interested in working with him. The governor said I was looking for him and he is not interested to work with me, I was looking for you because I wanted us to work together for Meru people together , said Linturi.However Munya disputed responding to his allegations because they are not seeking the same seat and if he did respond it will be seen as if he has lost focus in his politics.Kiraitu s interest for the governor seat as he has stated is that Munya has failed to realize enough development despite receiving enough funds from the national government. I am looking for the seat of governor because when I look how work is being done in Meru I feel I can do better than what is being done now. Munya has tried his best but Kiraitu Murungi can do Munya s best better , said Munya.Munya s response has been that they should stop talking much about what he has not done but tell the electorate what they have done on their part because they were elected as himself to work for the people. Ends /