One of America s longest-serving politicians, William Lewis Jenkins, once said, Often dismissed or underestimated by political opponents, President Reagan had the most valuable weapon in the political arsenal: A bond with the people. Politicians who create a strong bond with their supporters always come out on top, leaving their opponents wondering what hit them. This was what happened in 2013 when Uhuru Kenyatta won the presidency against the then immediate former Prime Minister Raila Odinga.Eight months before the elections, opinion polls placed Raila at more than 40 per cent while Uhuru and William Ruto were at nine per cent. Four months later, and after the two had visited many parts of the country, it became clear that they were no longer the underdogs.Their bond, that was evident from their rallies, was transferred and shared with their supporters and those who were still undecided shifted their loyalty.Today, it is clear that Uhuru remains the most popular of the likely presidential candidates going by public sentiment, and even opinion polls. There is a growing belief that the 2017 presidential race is for him to lose and his second term appears guaranteed under all circumstances.It is certainly true Uhuru is in pole position and is gaining ground even in the opposition zones. A lot of good things have happened in his first term that even some opposition supporters may just vote for him next year.But as this goes on, Jubilee cannot sit back and take opposition leader Raila for granted. To start with, he got almost half of the votes at the last election, and even though Uhuru has eaten into this support, he will still have a substantial number of Kenyans supporting his bid.History shows us that Raila is a master of political reinvention and is even more lethal when he knows he is losing ground. In 2002, he shocked both friend and foe when he proclaimed Kibaki Tosha! after he left Kanu just months following his historic merger with it.Other opposition leaders were shocked, despite moving with the euphoric mood that followed the declaration in Uhuru Park. He was at it again in 2005, when he led the No campaign against the draft constitution before metamorphosing this into the Orange Democratic Movement.ODM gave Kibaki a run for his money and eventually forced the creation of the position of Prime Minister for Raila after the 2007 general election. Riding on this, Raila supported the new constitution in 2010, hoping that this was his ticket to the presidency, only to be outsmarted by Uhuru and Ruto at the 2013 elections.Raila, despite having lost some of his allies to Jubilee, is working day and night to put his house in order. He is seeking to unite the opposition under an umbrella similar to the 2002 Narc, which removed Kanu from power.It is also worth noting that he has rejuvenated his campaign team, which is now led by Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho. This may be a game changer in the presidential race next year.Raila rode on the achievements of the grand coalition government, underestimated Uhuru and paid the price for it.The assumption that Uhuru will easily retain his seat is dangerous for Jubilee, as it can create voter apathy among his supporters. We may see low voter turnouts in Jubilee strongholds and this is why the UhuRuto team urgently needs to kick off a strong Get out the vote campaign.It is for these reasons that Jubilee has to be wary of assuming that the ODM leader is down and beaten. Raila is just down but not out and has enough time, more than 10 months, to reinvent himself and give Jubilee nightmares when the official campaigns kick off.The writer is a political and communications consultant. Twitter @MachelWaikenda