There is no end in sight to South Sudan s man-made apocalypse so long as its ruling gun class runs the show. These ethno-regional sectarian warlords have benefitted from the conflict through organised violence and plunder. On a number of occasions, they have organised pogroms against their own people on the grounds of ethnicity, political affiliation and social geography. The gun class has tapped dangerously into sediments of age-old ethnic cleavages as a means of maintaining power, literally by the barrel of the gun. The gun class in South Sudan consists of cliques of former liberators and former Khartoum-sponsored counterinsurgency warlords who fought on both sides of the civil war during the decades-long liberation struggle for South Sudan. These individuals include the current President, Salva Kiir (a liberator), and his former deputy turned armed opposition leader, Riek Machar (once a liberator turned a commercial warlord). The combination of corruption, violence and intense ethnic mobilisation deployed by this gun class on their own citizens has hijacked the nascent state and its future stability and prosperity. Irrespective of the side they fight, the objectives of the gun class remain the same setting their country on a permanent trajectory of fragility and instability for their own personal gain. In a recent book, former head of the UN Mission in South Sudan, Hilde Johnson identified the transformation of the security sector as the main roadblock to state-building.Indeed, the absence of political will among the ruling gun class to reduce the number of soldiers and weapons in circulation, or reform and professionalise the security sector is the major challenge to peace and stability in the newest African country. In the words of Jeremy Astill-Brown, this is a military with a country and not a country with a military and is, in fact, inching towards a country without a state.Now that the peace agreement has been rendered disabled, the government has sought to consolidate its power and has intensified brutal attacks against civilians. These attacks include sexual violence, criminality, and the closure of any public space for dissent, including the detention of journalists under South Sudan s own laws. The US special envoy to South Sudan, Donald Booth, recently testified before the US Congress. He remarked: We are of course concerned about adherence to the terms and the spirit of the peace agreement but at the same time, it is not for us to tell South Sudan who its leaders should be . Now, given all that has happened, we do not believe it would be wise for Machar to return to his previous position in Juba. But this cannot become a justification for President Kiir to monopolise power and stifle dissenting political voices. The reality at the moment is that South Sudan has already relapsed into civil war. The deployment of a regional protection force under the UN peacekeeping mission should be premised on allowing for the political reengineering of the fractured deal under a new architecture of a caretaker administration agreed to by all stakeholders. It should include faith-based and civil society groups. The caretaker government should comprise public personalities and technocrats rigorously vetted for honesty and integrity and should be assisted by the Joint Monitoring and Evaluation Commission tasked with overseeing the implementation of the agreement. It is now abundantly clear that restoring the status quo ante will be real heavy lifting and, ultimately, will not work. The only path forward to the promised land of hope, democracy, and prosperity for the people of South Sudan is terminating the political dominance of the gun class and its high-risk schemes in order to finally allow the people of South Sudan to emerge from behind the barrel of the gun.Dr. Majak D Ago t an economist by training served as a deputy minister for defence in the Government of South Sudan (2011 2013); Dr. Remember Miamingi is an international lawyer based at the Centre for Human Rights, Faculty of Law, University of Pretoria.