The media described him as a political novice even when he trounced the late Daudi Mwanzia to win the Machakos Town ODM-K nomination ticket in 2007.As Victor Munyaka puts it, the media coverage of his story made the late Mutula Kilonzo, then ODM-K secretary general, develop an interest in him that culminated in protecting his nomination certificate. Until that time few people knew me, explains the Machakos Town MP, with a wry smile. It was the media coverage that made me known. The headline in one of the dailies, Political novice beats top Kalonzo ally in party preliminaries , put him firmly in the spotlight that saved the MP and started his political career.However, his opposition to the 2010 constitution would soon after cost him then Vice President and undisputed Ukambani political kingpin Kalonzo Musyoka s trust. In Ukambani, Kalonzo was leader of those who supported the adoption of the new constitution. I went against him when I led the campaign of those who were opposed to the new constitution. In fact, I beat the team by majority of votes in my constituency. In 2013, he openly opposed Kalonzo s political pact with Raila Odinga, pushing him further away from his party bosses. is would cost dearly him at the 2013 Wiper Party nominations. They had already resolved to punish me. As revenge, I was rigged out in the party preliminaries. The legislator believes the country lost an opportunity that should have been used to iron out some of the contentious issues raised by the Church and other stakeholders at that time.Things like the recent push for the Okoa Kenya Referendum should not have happened if Kenyans had rejected the 2010 constitution. I was misunderstood when I opposed the passing of the constitution but see what came to happen later.The issues we raised then are the same ones Cord would later come to agitate for in what was recently called the Okoa Kenya Referendum, he says.The father of four attributes his success to hard work, commitment and the support of his wife Anastasia Wayua. She has been his greatest source of advice. In future, Munyaka will market himself as an individual and not a party. It will not matter what Party I may choose to ride on because the people of Machakos know me and they also know my work. I will present myself as an individual. 