There is no doubt that the achievements of the Kenyan athletes at the Rio Olympics to bring home six gold, as many silver medals and a bronze have been needlessly but rightly overshadowed by controversies in the build up, during and after the games.But despite the rumpus and behind the scenes battles that continues to rock the 2016 Olympic Games, we can t fail to talk about the bright side of Rio as a touristic destination.No country is known for their love for fun, dance and good times like Brazil and at no place will you meet the full effect of the Samba craze than Copacabana beach, The heart of Rio de Janeiro . At this beach and beyond, there is lasting legacy. During the Olympics period, Rio as a city, was for those who were ready to mix fun and sports and in fact many took advantage and capitalised on their visit. One such Icon was the Jamaican world top sprinter Usain Bolt, who didn t just achieve on the field but also took his game a notch higher by rocking night clubs in Copacabana and in the process prompted an alleged sex scandal that made headlines around the world.Away from Bolt rendezvous, beach volleyball was no doubt the most popular sport at the Olympics and the reasons were simple: It was being played at the Copacabana Beach and the scantily dressed beauties made it the venue of choice. Beach volleyball was one of the hottest tickets in town with most matches being played late into the night. Samba and pounding surf providing a sunny sound track made beach volleyball the venue of choice.They say United States invented the game and is the home of beach volleyball, but its soul lives in Brazil, and Copacabana beach was the altar where they came to worship as proved during the games.Copa had it all during the Olympic duration; Its amazing Balneario beach, the electric energy and It was amazing playing in front of such crazy, passionate fans especially putting into consideration that Brazil men s volleyball team went all the way to lift the trophy. The beach, located at the Atlantic shore, stretches from Posto Dois (Lifeguard Watchtower Two) to Posto Seis (Lifeguard Watchtower Six) and you haven t visited Rio until you venture the beach.There are historic forts at both ends of Copacabana beach; Fort Copacabana, built in 1914, is at the south end by Posto Seis and Fort Duque de Caxias, built in 1779, at the north end. One curiosity is that the lifeguard watchtower of Posto Seis never existed. Hotels, restaurants, bars, night clubs and residential buildings dot the beachRio residents know how to be comfortable in little clothes. They feel at ease showing their body and care about their physical appearance.However, this is not just about vanity, it s also about physical health. In Rio, you don t need gymnasiums because the city has installed body-weight gym equipment for people to use as a means of free exercise. This is why one has no choice but to keep and stay in shape for the ladies its in a bid to fit into the skimpy dresses that are synonymous with Rio girls and for men to have a realistic chance to catch the eye of the bevy of beauties with a muscular toned physique.But whatever happened in Rio, everyone agrees on one thing: Copacabana was fun. While the athletes were focusing on the serious business in Rio, the fans and sports tourists were indulged in an Olympic beach party, with the action starting early in the day and running late into the evening.You can t also leave Rio without visiting the statue of Christ the Redeemer. Cristo Redentor depicts Christ with his arms spread wide in a welcoming gesture, representing his role as redeemer of the world. It stands 120 feet high including the pedestal and is 98 feet wide. Made of concrete and soapstone and sculpted in a modern style, it weighs a total of 635 tons. Designed by Brazilian Heitor da Silva Costa and created by French sculptor Paul Landowski, it is one of the world s best-known monuments. The statue took five years to construct and was inaugurated on October 12, 1931. It has become a symbol of the city and the warmth of the Brazilian people, who receive visitors with open arms.Christ the Redeemer is famed for its magnificent views over the city of Rio de Janeiro. The small Chapel of Nossa Senhora Aparecida (2006) at the base of the statue hosts weddings, baptisms and Mass on Sundays. There is a cafe near the statue.Christ the Redeemer is located on Corcovado peak (710 m/2329ft) in the southern part of Rio de Janeiro. The monument is accessible by road and a cog railway (3.8km), which provides fine views along the way. From the parking lot or train terminus, visitors have a choice of 220 steps or a system of elevators to reach the statue. The last train departs from Corcovado at about 6:15pm. There are many more sights in Brazil to behold not least their scantily dressed beauties who need no second invitation to do a Samba jig.