Kenya is arguably one of Africa s fastest growing smartphone markets as seen with the number of manufacturers rushing to claim a share of the market.Statistics by business firms put Kenya among the countries with the highest internet and mobile connectivity rates in Africa at 58 and 83 per cent respectively, and manufactures are literally flying into the country.Infinix unleashed another model named Hot S into the Kenyan market. Infinix currently are known to draw the attention towards itself as a company by releasing huge phones with cheap prices.One of the hottest selling point of the Hot S is its cameras. The device is Infinix s mobile response to the Tecno Camon C9 that was launched some time in August this year. Just like the C9, it is also a camera-centric mobile device and is sporting a 13 Megapixel located at the top center, on the back of the device, with the dual LED flash right below it. Below this is the much-talked-about fingerprint scanner. The front camera is 8 Megapixels and quite clear.The device comes with a box containing a Micro USB cable for data transfer and charging the device, an OTG cable is also available for exchanging data from other devices, charger and headphones. Infinix hot S has the latest network band i-e 4G or LTE, as well as worked on the 3G or 2G bands.There is a shift in design compared to previous Infinix phones with the Hot S. It has a slim build with a unibody metallic frame. The material on the side is more polished and shiny, compared to the metal at the back which has been made to be less glossy for better grip. The phone is also very light and the 8.1 mm thickness makes the device appealing.The Hot S features 5.2 full HD display which is quite good for streaming videos or playing games on the device.This is the first Infinix device to run on the new XOS Chameleon based on Android 6.0 Marshmallow. Supporting this is the fast speed 64-bit Octa-core CPU running alongside 3GB of RAM with either 16GB or 32GB internal storage that can be extended to 128GB.The dual speaker grills at the bottom could deceive you to think that this phone has dual speakers, but that s not the case. The left sided one harbors the mic.Infinix manufacturers have boosted the performance by inserting a 3000 mAh non-removable battery, providing efficient battery timings. The handset has a 1.5 charger that hold approximately 2.5 hours to fully charge the battery.The device is available at Infinix branded shops (http://bbs.infinixmobility.com/forum.php?mod=viewthread&amp;tid=24523) and Safaricom shops at Sh15,000.