While many women look forward to having children, the same cannot be said about the labour process before the actual birth. Some are so scared of labour, they opt for an elective C-section, even when it is not an emergency. Many women have been conditioned to think labour is a horrific experience. But what if someone told you there is a way to have an almost painless labour no earth-shattering pain, with only a little discomfort? Well, hypnobirthing might be the solution. It is the use of hypnosis to condition the brain to believe labour is not painful. Proponents say if you hypnotise yourself well, you will have a pleasant birthing experience. It can be compared to the mind over matter theory. NO PENDULUMSome women swear by hypnobirthing, one being Thitu Kariba. Thitu, 32, is a certified Zumba fitness instructor and mother of two-and-a-half children (she is expecting her third child). She had her first birth naturally without using hypnosis, and she says she did not like the experience. I don t like the whole idea of giving birth in hospital. Apart from it being expensive they charge you for every little thing: mesh, gloves and so on it is not a comfortable environment. You are forced to lie down in a fixed position, yet that doesn t help during labour. It is much more comfortable to squat or be in a pool in a sitting position, Thitu says.For her second baby, Thitu opted for a home delivery and was introduced to hypnobirthing to make the process as painless as possible. When I talk about hypnobirthing, some people think of some cultish ritual, where someone swings a pendulum and your eyes follow it until you re hypnotised, but that s not what I m talking about. Hypnosis is basically programming your mind and telling it delivery is not a horrifying experience. We do it every day. We give ourselves positive affirmations. We tell ourselves, 'I m good enough, I ll get this job, I ll accomplish a certain goal,' and so on. It s all about attitude and thinking positive during labour. Many women s fear of labour makes them tense and unable to push comfortably, which consequently leads to painful labour. Hypnobirthing is said to help a woman have a peaceful birth by ensuring her psychological well-being is a priority. It involves deep breathing, relaxation, meditation, good nutrition and exercise.PRENATAL EXERCISEHypnosis alone will not ensure an easy birth. Thitu says expectant women cannot be docile throughout their pregnancy and expect to have an easy delivery. Exercise is very important for a mother-to-be. It enables you to ensure all your muscles are prepared for the birthing process. The workout a woman should do varies. For those who are active, they can do aerobics. If not, you can take walks. It s important to consult a doctor to find out what works for you. You should also know that the intensity of your workouts might have to reduce as you advance in your pregnancy. Thitu advises women to wear comfortable workout gear and rest in between a workout, if they feel strained. When it hurts, stop. She runs a programme for expectant mothers called Fitness for Two. She also teaches expectant women yoga stretches. During prenatal clinic sessions, women are always told to do stretches. If you look at the poses, you will realise they incorporate yoga-like stretches. I know there are people who are touchy about yoga because it is a spiritual exercise, but I still teach it because the moves are helpful for expectant women and everyone in general. We all stretch when we are a little tired, and that relaxes our muscles. Thitu also teaches aqua Zumba. Women feel much lighter in the pool, so we do some water exercises. She advises expectant women to watch their diet. Although you are eating for two people, that doesn t mean you two packets of rice. It s all about quality, not quantity. A mother-to-be needs all the essential nutrients rather than to fill herself with food. Women should control their portions so they do not gain too much weight during pregnancy, which they might find hard to shed. Eat plenty of veggies and get your fibre. Enjoy your meat, but have it well done to avoid bacterial infections. Drink plenty of water, too. It goes a long way while pregnant and breastfeeding. She encourages expectant women to avoid skipping breakfast. Eat fruits and ensure your plate has foods with different colours for maximum nutrients, Thitu says.ZUMBA FITNESSThitu advises everyone, not just expectant women, to try Zumba fitness. It makes you feel good. When I started it, it was not really about the fitness, but rather the music and that good feeling I would get after doing an hour of dance. It helps you stay positive because if you cannot really think of your problems as you exercise. But as I did more of it, I realised the positive impact on my health. For people doing it to lose weight, don t expect instant results. Also, keep in mind that everyone s metabolism is different. Thitu concludes by saying, Learning how to programme your mind is very powerful. Contact detailsFacebook: FitnessfortwoMobile: 0722711975