A group of people is plotting to petition the Judicial Service Commission for the removal from office of Chief Registrar of the Judiciary and Secretary to the JSC Anne Amadi. The group claims she has breached the constitution, the Judicial Service Act and the Leadership and Integrity Act for lack of integrity. The group alleges that she swore an affidavit knowing the facts were false.*****A former Cabinet minister and his family are on the spot for grabbing a prime piece of land that belonged to Kenya Power using his powerful contacts. It is said that the powerful family removed a fence separating their plot and that of the company off Olenguruone Road in Lavington and amalgamated it. They then went ahead and blocked off an access road linking Olenguruone and Mzima Springs. However, the family has become jittery because maps of the original boundaries exist and it has not been paying rates for both pieces of land. ****THE passage of the much-disputed anti-party hopping law has pleased and disappointed many MPs in equal measure. Our mole tells Corridors some MPs opposed to the law were a worried lot immediately it sailed through in the National Assembly on Thursday evening. Legislators from Cord and Jubilee who have differed with their party leaders were heard in the precincts of Parliament saying "hii kitu imetumaliza. Tusipojipanga mapema kurudi hapa si mchezo". It is said the MPs hinted to they would either go back to their party leaders on their knees like the biblical prodigal son, or choose to seek reelection as independents.*****TALK of buying tribal elders to endorse one's gubernatorial candidature! An aspirant for the Nairobi governor position is said to have paid tribal elders to go and endorse him at a popular pub. However, a picture the man took with the elders and circulated on social media was taken outside a pub, whereas the man said it was at the Kasarani Stadium. Those in the know say the man may attract a curse after he lied that the elders endorsed him yet the group of elders is not the legitimate one. It's now claimed widely the fake elders took money and hurriedly endorsed him. Word has it that it's taboo to carry out such events in bars and that they are supposed to be carried out under the sacred Mugumo tree. The real elders, who go by the name Kiama Kiama, now say the man faces unspecified consequences and may not win the political seat but attract a really bad curse.*****WORD has it that an HR personnel in one of the leading water firms wields a great deal of power after she fell in love with the MD. Those in the know say that the love affair has led to the lady overruling the MD when it comes to procurement. Its reported the lady is calling the shots and all tenders are awarded to her cronies and all procurement rules in the organisation have been suspended. The MD is reportedly unable to do anything since the woman has somehow usurped all his powers.