The terror attack on the Central police station in Mombasa on September 10 brought to light a disturbing trend: the increasing involvement of women in terrorism.As the public grapples with the incident, it brings back to mind the alleged involvement of Samantha Lewthwaite, the White Widow , in the deadly West Gate Mall attack on September 21, 2013. Initial reports said the fugitive widow of 7/7 bomber Jermaine Lindsay, was behind the attack. She is accused of killing more than 400 people.Elsewhere, for more than two years, Sally Jones, the fugitive British jihadist, has been the world s most-wanted female terrorist. She is believed to have recruited dozens of women to Isis through online sites.Women and youth in terrorismAs far back as the nineteenth century, women played key roles in violent extremist organisations. The very first person to ever be tried for terrorism, Vera Zasulich, was a woman and an anarchist for the Narodnaya Volya (People s Will) in Tsarist Russia.Patrick Gathara, who consulted for Amisom from 2010-13, says women have always participated in terror. He cites Ulrike Meinhof, a German left-wing militant who co-founded the Red Army Faction, to the many suicide attackers in India, Nigeria, Pakistan and Somalia.But, as Russell and Miller s landmark 1977 study found, women often played secondary roles to men. Those who carried out attacks or served as leaders were exceedingly rare. But this is changing.More women are being recruited at a tender age by terror groups to launch attacks, moving above just being fighters wives or social media campaigners. A study by Yoram Schweitzer showed that between 1985-2006, female terrorists committed 220 suicide attacks, representing 15 per cent of all the attacks.In 2015, 66 terror attacks were carried out solely by women, out of 70 terror attacks in which women were involved, as compared to only 13 in 2014. In 2015, 124 women took part in suicide attacks, as compared to 19 in 2014, The Times of Israel reported in January. Of the 120 women attackers from Africa, 35 were teenagers and children aged eight to 18. Just three days after President Uhuru Kenyatta launched the National Strategy to Counter Violent Extremism on September 7, three terrorists attempted an audacious terror attack at the Central police station, Mombasa. All the suspects were women.It later emerged that Fatma Omar, one of the attackers, was a student at Coast Girls High School and sat her KCSE exam in 2013. The second suspect and ringleader, Tasnim Yakub Abdullahi Farah, sat her form four exams only last year at Qubaa Muslim School. Three more women have been arrested as accomplices. In May, police foiled a planned biological attack using anthrax and arrested three suspects. Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet said a medical intern at the Wote Hospital, Mohammed Abdi Ali, was the prime suspect. His accomplices were Ahmed Hish, Farah Dagane (both medical interns in Kitale), Ali s wife Nuseiba Mohammed Haji, who was a student at the Kampala International University and Fatuma Mohammed Hanshi.During a counterterrorism forum at the UoN, National Counter-Terrorism Centre director Isaac Ochieng said: More than 20 Kenyan youths, most of them university students, have disappeared and headed to Syria. Terrorists are increasingly targeting varsity students to join them. We have intelligence that some students in UoN are on al Shabaab s payroll. Global scopeIn February last year, BBC reported that three missing teenagers were believed to have crossed to Syria, according to UK police. The Bethnal Green Academy pupils, Shamima Begum and Amira Abase, both 15, and Kadiza Sultana, 16, travelled to Istanbul on February 17. They were all girls.Evidently, terror groups are not only recruiting more youth but also young girls. The question that emerges is: what is the incentive? Counterterrorism isn t really about the nunchakus, the guns and the gadgets. It s about psychology, American actor Claire Danes famously said. Terror groups have used psychology in their recruitment efforts. Every war is fought on at least two grounds: the battlefield and the minds of the people through propaganda.Propaganda may be through distortions, exaggerations, subjectivity, inaccuracy and even fabrications, to receive support and a sense of legitimacy. Terrorists are radicalising youths on the premise of revenging for continued oppression, locally and internationally.This is happening a lot on social media. Youths reportedly spend an average of eight hours a day online. Many are unemployed, desperate and want to live a good life. The terror groups know this and have camped online to enhance their recruitment, enticing them with a lot of money.In February, a first-year biochemistry student was arrested at the JKIA airport as he headed to Libya, allegedly to join Isis. Hassanein Basty, it was reported, was lured online on the premise he would be employed as a phlebotomist on a salary of $2,000 (Sh200,000), which would increase to $10,000 (Sh200,000).The history and evolution of terrorism points to several factors that have contributed to its spread. These include politics, slow reforms in society, injustices and marginalisation, for example, in Northeastern. Ethnic profiling and police round-ups in Eastleigh are also burning issues.Unfortunately, instead of governments fighting this war in the minds of the vulnerable youth, it has resorted to violence, thus hardening the youths. This makes it easier for them to be radicalised.Franklin Management Consultants MD Andrew J Franklin says: Heavy-handed and imprudent counter- terror activities have exacerbated hostility and alienation among predominately Muslim and ethnic Somali communities along the border with Somalia and in the Coast counties. He says lack of coordination and the lack of a strategy to counter insurgency has meant that even solid intelligence is not acted on.As for the government s response, Uhuru said the new counter-terrorism strategy has prioritised disengaging and rehabilitating returning foreign terrorist fighters who disavow violence and terrorist ideology. Note the emphasis is not to protect young people from radicalisation.In April last year, the government gave an amnesty for radicalised youth and those who had crossed over to Somalia to return for rehabilitation and reintegration. To date, not much is heard of what happened to these youths.Uhuru said the National NCVE strategy will coordinate the existing efforts to double the country s capacity to prevent and counter terrorism activities. How well the government has involved communities and civil society in the war on terrorism so far is still questionable.Gender dimensionThe role of gender has been downplayed in the research and strategy formulation against terrorism. This has given terrorists a loophole to take advantage of.Professors Peter Kagwanja and Maria Nzomo observe that research on violent extremism has been approached from a militaristic perspective that pays little attention to the gender dimension. Their view is that the war on terrorism should be gender-focused, holistic and coordinated counter-terrorism policies, which are anchored on gender inclusivity. Women can be freedom fighters, Franklin says. Just like women played a key role in the Mau Mau rebellion, by feeding fighters, taking care of the injured, women do the same for terror groups. But they are now very present in the action itself. Franklin says: How have women in Somali communities in Kenya been treated by our security forces? what effects do extrajudicial killings and enforced disappearances of their sons and husbands have on their families? In addition, as demonstrated by the attack in Mombasa, Muslim women can move around much more freely than Muslim males [Largely due to perception that women are peacemakers, not purveyors of violence]. They can gather intelligence and carry messages without attracting much police notice. Prof Mia Bloom, author of Changing the nature of women in extremism and political violence study, told CBS News that women are an easy prey for terror groups. It is not easy for them to say no, even when they are misled on religious grounds.Then there is the media factor. You get a lot more media coverage when it s a female terrorist than when it s a male terrorist. Terrorist groups know this and are exploiting it, Bloom said. They get a lot more bang for their buck if they use a woman. Using female operatives remains one of the best ways to get through checkpoints, buildings and other terror targets because even after all the years of terror bombings, people are still amazed when a woman is involved. They provide an excellent cover. Women are are also able to hide bombs in the guise of a pregnancy.There has evidently been a failure to focus on the combination of socialisation, separatist nationalism, religion, and identity as critical independent and interlinked factors in driving the evolution and expansion of terror and, in particular, al Shabaab. In so doing, the complexity and inter-connectivity of political, social and economic challenges is missed or misunderstood.The counter-terrorism strategy will be hard to implement if it is inaccessible to communities, institutions and the public. Where as, as Franklin notes, some sections are too sensitive, others would not qualify as being inappropriate for public consumption, such as those relating to torture, extraordinary renditions, and amnesties for security forces actions. The strategy must also wake up to the realisation that more Vera Zasulichs are present in our midst.