Supremacy politics pitting ODM and Jubilee played out during the burial of Kilifi county lands executive John Mazuri.This was when Mining CS Dan Kazungu took issue with Senator Stewart Madzayo for not listing his name among ODM leaders in the county.The CS was put off by Governor Amason Kingi who reminded him that, being a technocrat in government, he is not allowed to engage in politics.Kazungu, when he spoke, complained that he was not named in the line up of ODM leaders and interpreted the statement to mean that he had been locked out of the party. The former Malindi MP, who was elected on an ODM ticket, said it would be good for him to be in another team, in reference to the Jubilee Party. "I have no number in the team and must form my own. In any game, there must be two teams competing. We respect ODM but now we will have to join another team," he said.However, his statement was not well received well by Kingi who the CS to forget about two teams."Leave politics to politicians. You are a technocrat," the governor said, "I advise you to leave matter of politics to us. You are not allowed to take part in the competition among the teams,"The governor said he respected Kazungu because he was a product of ODM who was poached by Jubilee after they failed to get a qualified person fit for the job in the county.Read: Coast remains ODM stronghold, Kilifi governor says as Jubilee tour looms Earlier, the CS had told ODM leaders in Kilifi county to engage in visionary politics and not insults at funerals."Let us not compete through insults in funerals but ideologies. We need peaceful coexistence among our people. Let Kingi come up with ways of developing Kilifi because you never when we can join you," the CS said."Jubilee is not a coast based party, we need leaders who are firm and stick to their stands," Kingi said, condemning Kilifi North MP Gideon Mungaro for abandoning their quest to form a Coast-based party.Read: [PHOTOS] Jubilee supporters endorse Mung'aro as Coast kingpin, Kilifi governor Eng John Mazuri died last week. The funeral was attended by deputy governor Kennedy Kamto,deputy National Lands Commission chair Abigael Mukholwe, MPs Willy Mtengo (Malindi), Kilifi woman representative Aisha Jumwa and Rabai MP William Kamoti, MCAs and other local leaders.