Parliament has ratified the Economic Partnership Agreement with the European Union to give the country an extension of quota-free, duty-free market access to the EU after September 30.The ratification paves way for a three-month window period to January 8 when East African Community heads of states are expected to meet on the EPA after the Dar es Salam talks this month failed conclude in a signed pact.Kenya exports are at risk of attracting taxes of between four and 22 per cent if EAC fails to agree, which will make local products uncompetitive in Europe.Only Rwanda n Kenya have signed the EPA which requires the signatures of all member states for it to be valid.In the meantime, Kenya will continue accessing the EU market under a special market access agreement until the EPA talks are concluded. "If we had failed to ratify on time the effect on Kenya economy would have been disastrous," Trade Cabinet secretary Adan Mohamed said yesterday following the special parliament sitting to ratify the deal.Kenya Association of Manufacturers CEO Phylis Wakiaga lauded parliament's move and assured local investors that their industries are protected. "We need to take advantage of opportunities EPA is offering in the EU. We are confident in the next three months we will have everyone on board," she said.Kenya Flower Council CEO Jane Ngige said the country has huge opportunities under EPA to increase its market share. "The opportunities of exporting what we produce are galore," she said.Kenya had upto September 30 to ratify the EPA agreement and notify the EU Council. Tanzania,Uganda and Burundi are yet to sign the pact. Kenya(the blocs only developing country) would be the only loser if the rest fail to sign the EPA. Mohamed urged the reluctant EAC members to come on board. "Lets move together in the spirit of EAC" the CS pleaded.The signing of the EPA was set for July 18, during the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development forum in Nairobi. Tanzania, however, declined to sign citing protection of its industries. Uganda President Yoweri Museveni said the agreement needed consensus between presidents, while Burundi s political instability is increasingly becoming a barrier to the deal after it emerged that European states were not comfortable with the Pierre Nkurunzinza regime.