Examination leakages, burning of schools, mega corruption scandals, and religious leaders preying on their followers are just a few of the many issues we are currently facing in the country. Things have gotten so bad that we are beginning to question whether there s anyone in this country who still has values. But what really are our values? What values do we hold as a country? Is it even possible to have national values that are upheld by all?While the public sector can afford to take heavy hits when it comes to the values they hold, the private sector cannot. After all, the public sector is funded through taxes and doesn't need to make any profits to stay alive, the private sector does. It is therefore worrying to read about companies that seem to operate without any values, despite the fact that many of them have beautifully framed statements of their values hanging on their office walls. There are a number of values that companies need to have and uphold, but one that stands out the most is trust.Stephen M.R. Covey the author of The Speed of Trust says that one thing that is common to every individual, relationship, team, organisation, nation, economy, and civilisation throughout the world is trust.So how can a business gain and keep the trust of all its stakeholders? Covey offers four key elements of trust: integrity, intent, capability and results.Integrity: The business, and its leaders, must not only be honest but also have strong moral principles. This means that the company should not bend, break or hide the truth, and neither should it shift its stand for convenience or profit. Things are taking a bad turn? Don't fudge the books and hope that things will get better, let the shareholders know the truth and offer a plan for turning things around. A good example of this is what Julius Kipng etich is currently doing at Uchumi; he has openly told stakeholders what the situation is like and engaged in discussions with them to bring the company back to profitability. Intent: What is the motive of the business and its leaders? Is it purely about profit, so that the business will go to any lengths, including stealing from its stakeholders in order to make profit? While profit is the main reason why a business exists, the business must have other motives that complement the profit motive. Capabilities: A business must have the skills, knowledge and other requirements to be able to do what it says it can do.Ng'ethe is the CEO at Raiser Resource Group, a performance improvement company based in Nairobi.