Kenya is wobbling between reason and pre-election mayhem. Trustees of the public interest are gambling with national stability to secure careers as steak-holders . This power play does not flatter the confidence of the political class. Journalists historians in a hurry were the first to describe the turbulence of 2007-08 as post-election violence . Insidious greed visited anarchy upon the land.Mwai Kibaki, the man who became president five years earlier, through the united will of the people, was pandering to the whims of a powerful ethnic clique. The country is paying the cost of that greed-induced insanity. Victims of the anarchy are still nursing the wounds of defensive and retaliatory madness that followed a bungled presidential election.Investigative journalists and administrators of justice have not told Kenyans what the disgraced ECK commissioners got in return for betraying the public interest. But this much is known: ECK commissioners were sacked and disgraced. Some have since died or retired into guilt and stress. The loss of reputation was complete. Some of the commissioners could not return to dignified public life. Such is the short-lived enjoyment of the proceeds of impunity. This is potentially the fate awaiting the current IEBC commissioners. They have sat still, and indifferent, as the country rehearses what could spiral into a pre-election conflagration. Three people stood out as the main actors before the outbreak of 2007-08 post-election insanity. There was a pawn where a fair arbiter could have done a better job of managing a highly contested presidential election. There was also the master of disguise, Mwai Kibaki, waiting in State House to reap from what was described as a grossly manipulated presidential election .Martha Karua, Minister for Justice and Constitutional Affairs, was the hawk of the status quo. The nation watched, confused, as she led out the ECK chairman Samuel Kivuitu. When a dazed Kivuitu arrived in the citadel at dusk, he was not sure whether he was swearing-in the right person as President. South African judge Johannes Kriegler, who chaired the inquiry into the conduct of the elections, confirmed Kivuitu s doubts. After several months of inquiry, the Kriegler team could not ascertain who had won or lost the 2007 presidential election. But because Karua and her bosses had security agents at their beck and call, they threw the country under the bus to secure a second presidential term for Kibaki. The country had gone into a contentious presidential election with a partisan referee.Raila Odinga said, almost prophetically, hours before Karua kidnapped Kivuitu, that the mess was driving Kenya down the wrong path. He cited the turbulence in Ivory Coast, on the West African seaboard, to warn of what would happen if forces of impunity subverted the popular will. Tit-for-tat is not the stuff of exemplary leadership. Martin Luther King Jnr had legendary disdain for violence especially retaliatory violence. If we follow the Old Testament law of An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth, we will just end up with a nation that is blind and toothless. Kenya deserves a way out of pre-election stalemate. President Uhuru Kenyatta s acceptance of Cord s demand for a credible arbiter of elections should be settled with all cards above the table.