South African President Jacob Zuma will arrive on Monday for a three-day state visit to Kenya, that will include trade talks with President Uhuru Kenyatta.Zuma&#39;s visit with a large business delegation will be the first by by a South African head of state, said State House spokesman Manoah Esipisu. Manoah said the SA leader will be honoured with a 21-gun salute and a Guard of Honour mounted by the Kenya Defence Forces. President Uhuru Kenyatta will then host him to one-on-one talks and formal bilateral talks that will be followed by a joint news conference. &ldquo;In the afternoon, they will address a Kenya-South Africa business forum, before Zuma returns to State House for a banquet,&quot; the spokesman said in his weekly briefing on Sunday. The two Presidents are expected to sign bilateral agreements on trade, immigration and security after lengthy discussions.The agreements will address non-tariff barriers, remove barriers impeding greater people-to-people contact between the two countries and examine ways to cooperate and collaborate in the security area in a globalised environment.&nbsp;&ldquo;Immigration is an important agenda item for Kenyans, and especially business people. It is also a matter of concern to Kenyans living in the Southern African countries of Lesotho, Swaziland, Botswana, Namibia, Malawi, Zimbabwe and Zambia,&quot; noted Esipisu. &quot;These Kenyans have raised the matter directly with the President during his visits to their region.&quot;He added that Uhuru and Zuma held phone discussions on&nbsp;the candidature of Foreign Affairs CS Secretary Amina Mohamed for the post of African Union Commission&nbsp;chairperson. The President will&nbsp; visit Turkana and Garissa &nbsp;counties after Zuma&#39;s departure.&nbsp; &nbsp; Uhuru will visit Lokichar in Turkana to inspect the progress of an oil exploration project and a road. The visit follows discussions by the President, the Energy ministry and the Kenya Joint Venture partners &nbsp;- Tullow Oil, Africa Oil &nbsp;Maersk Oil.&nbsp;Manoah said the talks centered on the progress of the Early Oil Pilot Scheme. Uhuru will visit Garissa county in November to personally hand a charter over to Garissa University College.Chancellors and VCs&nbsp;of several public universities agreed to accompany Uhuru, in solidarity with the institution which has shown great resilience since the April 2, 2015 massacre of 147 people by al Shabaab. They agreed to do so on October 7 when Uhuru froze&nbsp;the establishment of new universities for the government to focus on strengthening existing institutions. He witnessed the installation of chancellors of new universities as part of an elaborate ceremony of the award of charters. The universities include KAG East (Kajiado), Rongo (Migori), Cooperative university of Kenya (Nairobi) and Taita Taveta. Others are Murang&rsquo;a university of Technology, University of Embu, Machakos and Kirinyaga universities. More on this: Uhuru orders freeze on creation of new universities &nbsp;