English failed a poet from Kionyo village in 2005. In an attempt to amuse, or perhaps to sound profound, he gleefully compared donor criticism of the government s fight against corruption to raping a woman who is already willing. He may have meant to say donor criticism of the government s fight against corruption is like preaching to the choir , or some other safe idiom. However, at that moment, he made up what he thought was the most humorous and colorful expression.But Kiraitu Murungi survived his Trump moment . After all, it was only women s groups, the Kenya Human Rights Commission and some noisy NGO types that expressed displeasure. His government job was obviously secure, and life moved on. In short, his mispronouncements did not, in any way, threaten his political career. Years later, Kiraitu, then Energy minister, said that he only apologised for the storm to pass and intended to explain what he meant later. Because, as it turns out, one can confidently explain away the referencing of sexual assault in a joke.Over two decades ago, part of Matiba s electoral promises in the 1992 election was to kick Kenyans of Indian origin out of Kenya. Again, fortunately for him, the only direct reaction to his inflammatory comments was that Indian children were withdrawn from his Hillcrest International Schools then. He continued to make hateful, inciting speeches against the Indian community.As we go towards the 2017 elections, political utterances are bound to be increasingly desperate and volatile. Politicians will be pulling comments from thin air and fat backsides. There is apparently no spontaneous reaction, particularly from the political elite, that makes it costly to make inflammatory remarks. Online uproar only lasts a few days or weeks at the most, and runs out of steam, or dies off when a new hot topic develops.The question is, who will be the referee? The National Cohesion and Integration Commission appears to be a merely decorative outfit whose only job is to precipitate court appearances. If instead the cost of hate speech was hinged on one s political appointment or elected office instead of a slap on the wrist, then we can begin to address the hate-mongering that has been plaguing the country for decades. Only then will we begin to slay the dragon that keeps us on tenterhooks during every electoral cycle.Conversely, what the NCIC has in fact done is to cause a sudden surge in creativity and spinmanship . Thanks to the NCIC, the ability to later give your remarks brand new meaning is the latest political talent. Politicians are now telling us that their words were grossly taken out of context, all day every day. For instance, when a few weeks ago Raila Odinga called on all Kenyans from Mandera, Isiolo, Samburu, Kajiado and elsewhere in Kenya to arm themselves so that they can go to Nairobi and force Hassan s team out of office , he later tried to persuade us that what he actually meant were not literal spears and arrows for fighting, but Maasai ceremonial spears to only be displayed as symbols. Very convincing indeed, at least to a gullible audience.On the other side of the globe, The Donald s mouth is causing the Republican Party a wave of defections. He is leaving his surrogates baffled, unable to continue representing the indefensible. Between December 2015 and last week, a total of 160 Republican leaders have withdrawn their support for Trump, with over 30 of them going further to say that they will actually vote for Clinton. Trump s core support however remains intact, perhaps even grows more fiercely loyal just as Raila s or any other leader s electoral base would not change, no matter what he said. Or, for that matter, what he meant to say.