Last week I walked from Kinoo village down Waiyaki Way, one of Kenya s major highways. To get to Kinoo from Karen, I had to follow previously unknown roads through filthy polluted mini-towns. I saw a boy and a man carefully collecting water from a morning puddle that was surprisingly not brown water, but grey, the mud had settled. During the night, I imagined what morning tea would be like for these guys. It was 9am and smoke, exhaust fumes and loud shouting and banging were their world not mine. My taxi windows were up, air conditioning on. We were in a world apart.The walk down Waiyaki Way was a demonstration in suport of Kenya s Constitution. Strangers united in colourful T-shirts waving national flags, talking about justice, laughing, dancing. There were hundreds of us, but thousands of others along the streets watched our noisy parade silently, unmoved. It was a slow leisurely walk, we chatted, our conversation meandered. Police brutality, land grabbing, corruption cartels.... why are Kenyans bystanders in their own declining imploding world we wondered?It was a spectacular morning with blue skies complete with pristine fluffy clouds. Bottles of water were distributed, I saw plastic wrappers and empty bottles being flung by the wayside on road verges, right in front of me. My blood boiled. I asked that we didn t do it, and in that moment the rubbish strewn along the highway came into sharp focus. Plastic bags mostly. Everywhere, piles of litter, dumped onto the road verges. Anger began to well inside me. Then there were the muddy patches and the need to hop over soggy piles of you-don t-know-what and don t-want-to-know-what.But it was the smells that offended me the most. At one point I fought down the need to retch. Walking through a small slum, I was no longer in a separate world, I was face to face with a disinterested population of adults, playful children in their Sunday best whose innocence has probably been stolen multiple times over.Talk of justice for wildlife and protection of parks seemed totally inappropriate at that moment.Cars were hooting at us, and matatus tried to drive right through us. Someone said walk on the road, it s your constitutional right . Nobody cared... the Kenyan constitution promises a clean and healthy environment but we have a filthy city, air, water and even the food we eat is polluted. The noise, smells are all so oppressive.How ironic that a BBC documentary reports that Swedish children suffer from depression because life is too safe, boring, and protected. They don t know how to cope with normal day to day challenges like friendship and exam pressure.It s 4am and I am at home in a comfortable bed on the edge of Nairobi Park. The frogs and toads have gone silent. The lions too. I can hear the Mbagathi river gurgling. Everythi g is still and at peace. In this moment of clarity, the faces of 91 children from the slums of Nairobi that we just took to Samburu come to life. Tiny eight-year-old Anita who sat on my lap to colour in the lions in her activity book. Ibrahim who commandeered my camera and taught the others how to use it. Movin who knew the names of all the endangered species. Junior whose gift of expression through art. Jonn in games. Alvin through dance. Kids whose extraordinary individuality touched and moved me and everyone in the team so profoundly. It took only 24 hours for the spirit of these children to emerge. They were such a delight.Its amazing that we think we are doing something important for others only to discover it is us who gain the most. The laughter, fun and play was a tonic, I rediscovered my youth, saw wildlife for the first time again through innocent eyes. Dik diks, zebra, impala were no longer common but extraordinary and delicate. The horizon of stunning layers of mountains and valleys in hues of magical colours. And the powerful scents of herbs and trees, fresh morning air, and the unforgettable aroma of meals cooked on a campfire.Samburu was an eight hour drive for the 37 children we brought from Nairobi s slums. They came from Ngong, Kibera, Dandora and Mathare. Places I have been to but can t imagine living in. They are much worse than anything I experienced today. There is virtually nothing green in our slums. The ground, paths, streams, buildings, are all one uniform colour ... brown. They call it chocolate city. That is too kind. Noisy bars operate 24/7, and every vice possible is just a step away. People who live there seem to have a numbed life, oblivious of the noise, smells and piles of trash everywhere. There is no escape from danger, people are just surviving. I can t imagine how a trip to Samburu to meet wild elephants and lions must have felt for these children. Camping was such a terrifying novelty for some at first. But they were so upset to leave after only 3 days.Samburu is eight hours from Nairobi and yet a world away for these kids. But we don t have to go that far for the experience. Nairobi Park is literally across the road from Kibra - a five minute walk. The park is amazing, 117 square kilometers of savannas, bush and forest, valleys, dams and streams. It has more birds than most countries, and an amazing wildlife diversity including lions, rhino, giraffe, buffalo, hippos, and so much more. The park is a spectacular escape from the busy noisy, smelly, capital city. But bulldozers stand ready to convert this unique wilderness into roads, railways, pipelines and powerlines to feed an ever growing urban expansion. More slums, high rises, trash heaps.Poor Kenyans live in filthy noisy slums, separated from rich Kenyans in leafy safe suburbs. The park is the ultimate equaliser, a peaceful space for all to share. But we are losing it even before we have gotten to know it. The public, neighbours, residents of Kibra, business operators and even conservationists are silently watching as the park, an icon of the city, crumbles. Our Statue of Liberty is being hacked into chunks of concrete to build another office block.How can we lift the veil of clouded thinking for the public and the powers that make short term individual choices that annihilate our collective options for a magnificent city with a unique magical world. Where fresh air, calming sights, insects and bird songs, peace, nature and greenery are valued as equally essential to the creation of an urban healthy and wealthy city. How do we get the poor and the rich alike to defend the park as we would our treasured cathedrals and ancient monuments?These thoughts keep me awake at 4am.Dr Paula Kahumbu is the WildlifeDirect CEO