In the past couple of weeks, Kenya s spending on health has come into focus through media coverage of newly launched initiatives such as the transfer of management of the free maternal healthcare project to NHIF and the Universal Health Coverage in Africa side event at the just concludedTICAD conference. As a result a large number of facts and figures have been cited by public personalities as proof of the progress that has been made in various interventions to meet national health priorities and goals. We set out to seek the truth from the lies in the claims made on allocations to health spending.CoastWeek.com, for instance, reported that according to the Treasury CS Henry Rotich, the government has allocated US$60 million to health in FY 2016/2017. Speaking on the same topic later during the TICAD conference, the Deputy President William Ruto,as quoted by a public press releasein a local daily further claimed that Kenya has increased investment in health by 55%.So we question, how much has the government set aside for the health sector in Kenya? How does this allocation compare to health spending in the past?PesaCheck has researched the issue, with input from theInternational Budget Partnership in Kenya, and finds that both claims made on Kenya s investment in healthcare are FALSE for the following reasons:The media coverage on CS Rotich s remarks is FALSE. In fact, the budget documents reveal that actually Sh60.3 billion shillings, or approximately USD600 million at prevailing exchange rates, has been allocated to the health sector. We attribute this erroneous reporting either to a typo or a miscalculation in converting to foreign currency. In comparison, the stated USD60 million is closer in amount to the government s allocation to the free maternal healthcare initiative. The claim made by the Deputy President that Kenya has increased investment in health by 55% is also FALSE. Scrutiny of different budgetary documents reveals that in fact, the FY2016/17 health allocation of Sh60.3 billion when compared to the allocation made by the Jubilee government in its first year in office (FY2013/14) is actually a 61% increase from Ksh37.5 billion. When further compared to the2014/2015 budget, the Ksh60.3bn represents a 27% increase from Ksh47.4 billion. Finally, when this year s allocation is compared to last year s budget FY 2015/2016 (Ksh59.18 bn), the amount represents only a 2% increase.Given the ambiguity on what the increase in investment was pegged on, and depending on the baseline year given, this claim is not true as proven by the figures. Assuming a baseline year of 2013/2014, the DPs claim represents an underestimate by 6%.Do you want us to fact-check something a politician or other public figure has said about public finances? Write to us on any of the contacts below, and we ll help ensure you re not getting bamboozled.This report was written by PesaCheck FellowLeo Mutuku, who is co-founder and chief executive at a data-science consultancy in Nairobi. PesaCheck is East Africa s first fact-checking initiative.