Nairobi county is hiring part-time (locum) doctors and engaging trainees (interns) to replace the striking medics.This comes as the striking doctors vowed not to return to work until the county addresses their demands.The doctors downed their tools on September 11 demanding six months salary.Read: Nairobi doctors refuse to resume duty, dare county to hire internsThey also protested delayed promotions and the county s failure to remit their NHIF deductions since January.Health executive Bernard Muia said the strike is illegal as it is against the agreement the doctors union struck with the county on September 9, following a two-week strike notice on August 29. The parties resolved that the scheduled strike be put off by two weeks to allow time to attend to unresolved issues, Muia said.Kenya medical practitioners dentists union secretary general Ouma Oluga said none of the issues they raised with the county have been resolved. We are on strike, that is it. City Hall has not addressed any of the issues we raised. Let them (City Hall) sleep, when they wake up let them resolve the issues presented to them, Oluga said.Also read: Striking doctors dare City Hall to sack, replace themMeanwhile, the city-county assembly health committee has said it will not allow City Hall to replace the medics.Chairman Manoah Mboku said the doctors are within their rights to demand the pay and accused the county of frustrating its workers. We have already told the county not to sack them. They (doctors) are within their rights. They are asking for allowances, promotions and a better working environment, he said.Nominated MCA Karen Wanjiru, a committee member, blamed the county executive for the mess in the health sector. We have visited almost all the facilities in Nairobi and the situation is similar. Under-staffing, drug and equipment shortage. We had done reports and made recommendations but no action has been taken, she said.Health sector got the lion s share-Sh6.5 billion- of the city county s Sh35 billion 2016-17 budget.Also read: Patients seek treatment in Kiambu as doctors go on strike