If one declares that we have a stupid government, he will be terrorised and heckled out of town by Jubilee government functionaries, supporters and tribal bigots. He will be detained and persecuted by biased Jubilee supporters within the security services and the Director of Public Prosecutions.But what is more stupid than the latest revelations of the incompetence, theft, fraud and confusion that mired the Kenyan team to the Rio Olympic games? Head of delegation Stephen arap Soi told a parliamentary investigating committee the National Olympics Committee of Kenya paid Sh5 million for accommodation in Rio, including on a cruise ship the Othon Palace at the behest of Sports CS Ali Wario and PS Robert Ekai. Why has the President not sacked them?Soi, a retired senior police officer, did not just wake up with such alarming claims; knowing too well that the Labour and Social Welfare Committee of the National Assembly before which he was testifying is equivalent to the High Court. He would not perjure himself. He told the committee instructions to pay accommodation for President Uhuru Kenyatta and other senior government officials in Rio were given by the CS and his PS in a meeting on June 14.Wario and Ekai denied this. Nock officials said on arrival in Rio the same instructions were pushed by both Wario and Solicitor General Njee Muturi, who was attending the games. But now it is claimed the instructions referred to the President of Nock and not President Uhuru Kenyatta . Another possible case of perjury that is begging for action?State House denounced Nock s revelations. Spokesman Manoah Esipisu rightfully underlined that the head of state s accommodation and other logistical bills during foreign travel are a strict preserve of the Foreign Affairs ministry. He should tell Kenyans how it is that the Sports CS, PS, and Solicitor General do not know such simple facts about government protocol. If they knew, we should have seen Soi s prompt prosecution for false allegations .Nock purported to pay allowances for officials from the executive and the legislature whose participation was the responsibility of their departments. This included paying accommodation for two chairmen of parliamentary committees MP David Were and Senator Stewart Madzayo, whose expenses and accommodation were fully paid for separately by the Parliamentary Service Commission.For this stupidity, some athletes lived in deplorable conditions in Brazil while others missed air tickets, yet officials and joyriders made merry and illegally hoarded and squandered public funds allocated for the team and players. There is the painful report of Catherine Ndereba and John Anzrah lacking accommodation and going hungry while the Chef de Mission roamed about with Sh25 million.All because the government was asleep and irresponsible as always as witnessed in previous scandals, notably extrajudicial killings, financial scandals, including the Eurobond, Anglo Leasing and the National Youth Service rip-offs. The latest stupidity has been the distortion of Kenya s democracy witnessed in the shambolic and commercial Jubilee Party merger, where delegates were tricked and cheated out of promised allowances.Kenyans have for long warned that this Uhuruto government is dysfunctional. Good Samaritan criticism and advice have been met with hostility from Jubilee quarters all the way up to the presidency. Now see! I do not expect state persecution again for expressing my opinion.The Writer is ODM National Treasurer and MP for Kitutu-Masaba Constituency