Multimedia University students&nbsp;blocked Magadi Road in Nairobi on Tuesday in a demonstration over the death of a schoolmate in an accident on Sunday.Four people were killed while six were injured when a bus overturned on Lang&#39;ata Road on Sunday; Nairobi commander Japheth Koome said the driver had been speeding when he lost control of the vehicle.The students demonstrated on Tuesday accusing drivers of matatus that ply the Ongata Rongai-city centre route of recklessness. The protest forced more commuters to trek to their destinations as the NTSA revoked the licences of more than 100 matatus following the accident.The students noted their schoolmate Cynthia Akoth died from her injuries in hospital after the bus veered off the road and overturned. Akoth was a first year, first semester student who was admitted to the&nbsp;university&nbsp;in September for a degree in applied communication. Simeon Maranga, &nbsp;Multimedia University of Kenya Students Association president, told the Star by phone that their demonstration was in support of road safety. The students also complained of the high fares they are charged, saying they sometimes pay Sh200.&ldquo;It is not logical for us to be charged what people use as fare from Nairobi to Nakuru yet we are commuting within Nairobi,&quot; said Maranga.&quot;This is outright theft. The National Transport and Safety Authority should create some order.&quot; Maranga added that touts and drivers were ill-mannered and mistreated students&quot;It is our time to stand and fight for our right. We claim comrade power... Let us use that power to fight for our right.,&quot; he said. &quot;If they cannot drive the matatus well we are ready to kick them off the roads.&quot; The Kiserian and Ongata Rongai Residents Association said on Monday that it would hold a peaceful protest against reckless driving on Magadi Road. Their march will begin at Tuskys at 7am on Thursday and end at Lang&#39;ata Cemetery.&quot;We intend to protest the failure by national and county agencies to address growing recklessness and impunity on the part of matatu saccos and crew,&quot; chairman Fredrick Gori said in a statement.He said the carefree attitude of PSV personnel has resulted in traffic jams, fear by residents, accidents that could have been avoided, injuries and loss of life.