Now, controversy has raged on this matter especially due to socialization that emphasises to men to be hunters and in this case not to take a NO for an answer. This school of thought defines masculinity in its patriarchal sense that entitles men by sheer fact of anatomy not decorum. During the recent Gender Forum on sexual harassment organised by the Heinrich Boll Foundation, speakers including Simon Mbevi of Transform Kenya; Saida Ali an international policy expert, Wamboi Ngige of Flone Initiative that was birthed from the #MyDressMyChoice Initiative, Fredric Nyagah of #MenEngageKenya Network and Esther Passaris founder of Adopt A Light Ltd engaged with members of the public on the changing nature of sexual harassment as a precursor to sexual abuse. From the discussions, it was clear that stereotypes of flawed masculinity trigger the chase and not that pursuit is a wrong thing especially in desirable relationships and even professional engagements. Indeed, we live in a society which requires persistence to hit targets at work as a result of the capitalistic nature of our economies. However, when it comes to social interactions, there has to be clear boundaries that ensure that professional engagements don t become uncomfortable with diversion towards solicitation of sexual favours. According to Mbevi, while Kenya has made progress in enacting laws around sexual offenses, two aspects still require urgent attention- Socialization towards respectful relationships both at a personal and professional level and the personalization of accountability. The socialization process of men and women needs to encourage fair and honest conversations where both parties understand the differences between positive and negative persistence. While positive persistence respects another s feelings, desires and wishes, negative persistence is purely selfish- doesn t take NO for an answer and easily deteriorates towards sexual harassment. Even as the legal framework continues to evolve to address the various manifestations of sexual offenses, the greater burden lies in personalization of accountability. In this context, each and every one of us must take it upon ourselves to understand sexual harassment and speak against it. This is a duty that cannot be merely left to civil society, the judiciary or activists. Personal accountability requires that we individualize the responsibility of preventing sexual harassment. We need to come to a place where we have more persons championing against sexual harassment than those trying to scrounge excuses and explanations that seek to rationalize, downplay or defend sexual harassment. Efforts should be made especially in corporate and public institutions to ensure that there is a clear system to address sexual harassment not only in terms of reporting but also successful, expeditious and fair conclusion of the cases. In a corporate setting, this should not just cover staff only but also external persons who interact with staff be it the subordinate staff such as cleaners, messengers, interns or even external contractors and suppliers. But even as we do this, we need to be conscious of those persons who are outrightly lazy and seek to win attention or huge sums of compensation by making false claims of sexual harassment. While this can be dealt with through successful defamation suits, there has to be increased civic education that condones those who seek to profiteer by making false claims of sexual harassment. EndsThe writer is a Media Law and Regulation expert. He can be reached on edward.marks09@gmail.com