More than 40 Cord members who occupy elective positions openly showed their love for the Jubilee Party at Kasarani. Cord now wants them to go to the ballot to defend their seats. This is their way of getting back at the lover who has found someone else. A jilted lover is a powerfully jealous person and sometimes will engage in irrational behaviour. In invoking the current law that allows for parties to de-whip errant members, it may deeply backfire on them.Main story: ODM wants by-elections for defectorsHere s why.De-whipping errant members will have the immediate effect of freeing them into the hands of JP, who may now appoint them to their House committees, further weakening Cord s voting power.Even if Cord succeeds in having the Registrar declare them unfit to hold office, it will have the unintended consequence of making them the persecuted saints maltreated by their cruel former party. This will trigger a rain of sympathy votes falling on them, thereby embarrassing Cord and quite possibly weakening them. They will also give JP the chance to exercise its financial muscle in the by-elections.If they succeed in getting that far, the persecuted individuals will have JP s full backing and a sympathetic public.As things currently stand, Cord will not go far with this route. There are far too many complications on their way for them to succeed. First, there is no time. The next election is now just round the corner. Even if they convince the Registrar of Political Parties that these are no longer their members, the affected individuals will have the Tribunal hear their story. This will definitely take time. Even if the Tribunal rules in favour of Cord or their affiliates, the affected individuals may still go to the High Court and this will take more time. The matter will likely drag through the Appellate court right up to the Supreme Court. Meanwhile, Cord must foot hefty legal bills; for Jubilee footing lawyers fee notes is no sweat.Even if Cord emerges the victor in the end, they will still have the Speaker to convince and if he does not agree (in the light of impending elections) then it was a wasted effort. Assuming he agrees, the IEBC will also have to agree to conduct the by-election, which, in practical terms, will not be possible. You remember that all parties must conduct their primaries at least 90 days before the elections.