Some Jubilee aspirants for various positions in the city were recently overheard boasting how they had uncovered the underhand tactics of one of their own. The aspirants, who spoke just hours after the Sunday rally in Eastleigh's Mlango Kubwa area, said that the person they thought was their colleague, and who has also shown an interest in a political position in the city, has been sponsoring a group of youths to heckle other aspirants whenever they campaign together. The latest incident saw one of the prominent figures in the city heckled during the Sunday rally. But even as he dismissed the hecklers as bhang smokers, the other leaders were not amused. They said one of the hopefuls aspiring for the city county position shunned the individual after learning of his tricks and it's just a matter of time before they isolate this person.********** Is Ruaraka MP Tom Kajwang' pushing his 2013 rival Geoffrey Otieno to run for the Mathare parliamentary seat? Sources whisper to Corridors that the man could be secretly persuading Otieno to decamp to Mathare, where the incumbent Steve Kariuki has decamped to the Jubilee Party. However, it's understood that the ODM leadership is keen on lawyer Anthony Oluoch. Kajwang's alleged declaration at the ODM rally on Sunday that he is the acting Mathare MP has fueled speculation. Oluoch was among the committee of experts that drafted the Okoa Kenya Bill for Cord. He has also offered many pro bono legal services to Cord.*********A first-term MP from Vihiga county could be in for a rude shock after his constituents threatened to teach him a lesson in the coming elections over his unbecoming conduct. Corridors has it that the MP, who rarely contributes to serious debates in the National Assembly, has been threatening people with his firearm whenever he feels like doing so, even when there is no provocation. The residents are now planning to petition Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet to have the MP's gun withdrawn. He recently accosted an area MCA and threatened to shoot him for no apparent reason, but swift intervention by residents saved the day, as they vowed to ensure a better person represents them. They said they did not elect an individual so that he can come back and threaten the same people whose interests he is supposed to represent.