Bald is beautiful. This craze was made popular by Kenyan actress Lupita Nyong's who bagged an Oscar and accepted her award on an international platform spotting short hair.Since then, African fashionistas have borrowed a leaf from Lupita and have gone bald. One such trendster is fashion blogger, Joy Kendi. Her hairstyle is a short haircut that she colours blond, it sets her apart from most millennials in her line of work.Joy's signature look has seen her get featured in Essence magazine together with other fashion conscious-short-hair-loving women.We are in an era where long tresses are loosing out to the short more natural hair styles. Besides, Lupita other celebrities who wear thier hair short include Amber Rose, Jill Scott and Viola Davis.Essence decribed Joys look saying, "Take your hair from flat to funky with dye! Not only is this blonde making Joy s skin glow, but the full brows adds a subtle umph to her face."An elated Joy took to Facebook. She wrote, "See, you really don't need long hair to be beautiful. @essence. The day I showcased my newly shaved head to the world was the day I realized that too many people care way too much about other people's hair. The amount of "why would you cut your hair?" I would get everyday for 5 month was insane. Or even better "why would you cut your hair? It was soooo long and beautiful.."Long and beautiful? ?? Y'all know all that was a weave right . All of it... I mean 95% of what was there was bought by the bundle.... I absolutely love everything about my shaved head. It's given me a new type of confidence I never thought I had. Plus, do you know how much money I've saved not weaving... I mean DAMN!!!For the record I am not weave bashing". If you want to beat that weave so hard it sweeps the floor you walk on.. do it booboo. Naomi Campbell that weave till the cows come home for Christmas and until you feel like you are all types of "Gone with the wind fabulous". At the end of the day it's your hair. No body needs to be happy with it except you.That same rule applies to everything else in life . Have a gorgeous Tuesday .And if you want to shave your head, girl just do it. What's the worst that can happen? You look like an emoji? I look like an emoji every day."