The Infinix Hot 4 is the first smartphone under Sh10,000 to have a fingerprint sensor. This is big considering that a fingerprint sensor is not that common in budget smartphones.The device shares the same design language with the first iteration of the Hot series - the Infinix Hot x507 - which was the first ever Infinix Hot device to be introduced by the company. It is completely made of plastic material with the back textured, which Infinix calls-3D textured. The phone boasts of 5.5-inch display with high definition resolution that is sharp and bright when browsing through photos and watching videos. At the top of the phone you find the 3.5mm audio jack, the 8MP camera shooter, fingerprint scanner and the single LED flash. The phone's speaker is positioned at the bottom and it tends to muffle out sound when playing songs on the phone.Unlike the Hot 3, the Infinix Hot 4 is not a camera-centric device. The device comes with an 8 MP primary camera and a 5MP secondary camera. However, this is ideal for a budget-friendly smartphone with the camera specifics the phone comes with. It has a night mode feature, panorama, professional and beauty mode. Overall, the camera of the phone is fun to play around with.The device comes with the new XOS Chameleon based on the Android 6.0 Marshmallow. It also comes with a 2G RAM and a 16G ROM. But it is not 4G LTE enabled, though comes with a 3G functionality. It is also the first Infinix Smartphone to feature the new Infinix Smart Voice, a technology that uses an additional microphone and smart signal processing algorithms to isolate ambient noise for clearer calls.It is more of an all-around smartphone with exceedingly high-end specs including a 4000mah battery, fingerprint sensor, and other exciting features. The fingerprint sensor enhances security and can be used to take pictures, especially selfies. The 4000 mAh, non-removable, Li-ion is a massive upgrade from the Li-ion 3000 mAh battery capacity found on the Infinix Hot 3. On a normal usage the battery could last more than a day, but for people who use their phones nearly every time, it can last for up to 17 hours before the device drains its power. Infinix's main target with the Hot series of smartphones is young people who are newly employed or still in campus, given its price range. It is the perfect budget device to purchase currently at just Sh9,699 and is available on Jumia.