A Kenyan from Samburu County has won a Sh10 million conservation award, becoming the first African to receive it.Tom Lalampaa is expected to officially receive the $100,000 Bright Award at Stanford University in California on Wednesday afternoon.The award recognises his conservation work in Northern Kenya, where he also promotes peace between different communities.Lalampaa works as the chief programmes officer for the Northern Rangelands Trust, a conservation behemoth headquartered near Isiolo.NRT is a network of 33 large community wildlife ranches, whose combined size amounts to 11 per cent of the entire Kenya."I must give the credit to the people I work with in northern Kenya," said Lalampaa. "That this award came to Kenya above all the other contenders for this prize, and specifically that it recognises the success of the work we are doing with the communities of northern Kenya, that is really special to me. Samburu morans dance by the campfire at the Samburu Game Reserve Photo/FileSome friends who congratulated him on his Facebook page called him the incoming MP (for) Samburu East and the president of conservation in Kenya .The current Samburu East MP is Raphael Letimalo.Lalampaa, 43, grew up in a pastoralist family within what is now the West Gate Conservancy near Samburu National Reserve.A statement from NRT said the community joined together to pay for his education at Wamba Boys Boarding School.He went on to earn a BA in social work, a MA in project planning and management, and an MBA in strategic management, all from the University of Nairobi. He is currently working on his PhD.Lalampaa also sits on the board of Kenya Wildlife Service, and on the Africa Council of The Nature Conservancy, a Nairobi-based NGO.Stanford University yesterday said it will prepare mandondo (boiled beans) and bhajia for his reception, to honour his native culture. Some 140 professors, students, staff, and members of the public are expected to gather at the university's law school to hear Lalampaa's presentation, which he said would describe his work in northern Kenya and how it is bringing peace to rival communities, healing damaged landscapes, and protecting wildlife.His work shows how herders grouped into conservancies can increase the profit they make from their cattle for example by adopting smart grazing methods that leave areas untouched to create 'grass banks' for dry times while also allowing damaged landscapes to recover.A young boy from the Samburu tribe tends cattle in South Horr, Northern Kenya on May 20, 2012. Photo/FileThe NRT then provides a ready market for the pastoralists' cows with a certain amount contributed to the conservancy for development.For example, if NRT buys a cow for Sh50,000, the seller receives Sh49,000 with Sh1,000 going to the conservancy to support education and healthcare. The same model applies for women doing beadwork."If we get conservation right with people, the rest falls into place, said Charles Oluchina, Director of Field Programmes in Africa for The Nature Conservancy. Tom depicts in true shades what that philosophy of conservation through people means for us at The Nature Conservancy, and the body of thought and approach that he has grown is unparalleled in Kenya. To boost security, Lalampaa assists young Samburu men receive loans of Sh16,000 each to boost their own small businesses, to avoid slipping into activities like cattle-rustling.The Bright Award was created by a gift from Raymond E. Bright in 2007 on behalf of his late wife, Marcelle, and himself. Under the terms of his gift, the Bright Award is given annually to an individual who has made significant contributions in the environmental preservation and sustainability area and is awarded to an individual from one of ten rotating regions. 2016 was Africa.The nomination committee comprises Stanford Law School faculty members, law students and others on campus. The Dean of Stanford Law School selects the final award recipient.