Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang ula often reminds his colleagues that you cannot do the same thing the same way and expect different results . The dwindling support for the opposition boils down to the Cord affiliate parties doing the same thing over and over, expecting different outcomes.The next presidential election looks like it will be a walk in the park for Jubilee.ODM s tour of Western, its erstwhile stronghold, can be described as routine, with little or no value addition. Routine activities do not excite the voters.Cord (ODM, Ford Kenya and Wiper) has concentrated its energies and resources in regions it has a stranglehold on, hardly venturing outside Western, Coast and Nyanza to break new ground.The audience Raila addresses in Western is the same one he spoke to in 2002, 2007 and 2013. The numbers have not grown. Civic education would have given potential voters a reason to enlist.It is now politically suicidal to ignore ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi in the race for State House. Raila s routine trips to Western do not translate into numbers; they have precipitated an antipathy Jubilee is gleefully taking advantage of.In addition, the persistent disparaging of Mudavadi does not win ODM new voters. Instead it is working against the Orange party. In the opposition ranks Mudavadi stands out as a more credible presidential candidate to turn the tables on Jubilee.President Barack Obama won the 2008 US presidential election by targeting new voters the youth and the politically indifferent African-Americans. The momentum was sustained into 2012, from which Hillary Clinton will benefit immensely in the November 8 presidential election.It is still ruthless. By contrast, Republicans sat back in the hope white voters would tilt towards his rivals John McCain and Mitt Romney respectively. For ODM s campaign to make an impact in Western, Raila needs a rethink to slow down growing realignment and loud resentment.Besides new voters Obama also assembled a powerful think tank nicknamed the Team of Rivals that rummaged through his policy proposals and ensured he stayed ahead of the pack.Notably, Raila has done little to break new ground in Rift Valley, Central and Upper Eastern. Instead ODM has been vocal in accusing Jubilee of blocking registration of new voters in their strongholds. The same argument was advanced in 2002, 2007 and 2013.There was time to apply for national IDs early, but nobody went out to mobilise unregistered voters. The assumption that Western was locked into the opposition is now being disproved.Raila s failure to make it to State House has disillusioned supporters. The opposition has failed to come up with regional strategists. The absence of a bottom-up approach to expand and retain support is rapidly transforming Western into a battleground.This is the reason Jubilee has trained its eyes on Western. Assured of Central and Rift Valley, the governing coalition is concentrating its resources on the opposition s strongholds.In Western, ODM is virtually talking to itself a monologue that is dominated by the same old stuff about a rundown regional economy, Raila s Wanga kinship, etc.There is no denying Jubilee is the most corrupt government in Independent Kenya.It is during Jubilee s administration that ethnicity has hit crisis levels. Only a tyranny of numbers will uproot Jubilee from State House. The answer lies in roping in new voters and regions. The frequent trips to Western are increasingly becoming meaningless.