A police officer caused laughter yesterday in Nakuru when he told a vetting panel to plead with his wife to produce her bank statement.That would answer questions about his income exceeding his salary, Eldoret-based Chief Inspector Polycarp Ochieng said.He requested commissioner Ronald Musengi to convince his wife to deliver the document so he can submit it for scrutiny. I m requesting you as the chair to accompany me. I have tried my best to no avail, he said. You can assist me to make her understand the need. The team had given him two weeks to submit his first wife s bank statement. Ochieng said, however, the wife, who is also in the police force, refused to release it.The panel rejected his appeal. It is not possible, officer. That s not our mandate. Our work is to vet, hence, you need to submit all the documents required, Musengi replied.Ochieng also struggled to explain his business dealings and more than seven M-Pesa transactions.He said he is in the maize business with three colleagues. However, one of them, who was interrogated in the morning, gave a conflicting answer. Your colleague Kennedy Rucho said you are in the guinea fowl business. What can you tell the commission? Musengi said.The hard-pressed officer denied Rucho s assertion. He said his colleague could have been trying to implicate him, or was using his name to venture into businesses without his knowledge.Meanwhile, another police officer, Patrick Thairu, who is in charge of Gilgil driving tests, was at pains to answer questions about his A-level certificate. His subject grades were not tallying with the mean grade. He said he lost his original certificate and paid to get the certified copy. The vetting started on Monday and is to end on September 3. Commission chairman Johnston Kavuludi said they will vet 330 traffic police officers from the Rift Valley.Vetting regulations require officers to provide information on income, assets and liabilities. The commission can compel them to produce information if necessary.Further, it can conduct investigations to establish the authenticity of information received for the interviews.