The government will renovate dilapidated police officers housing in Murang a county, Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet has said.He said the Murang a police quarters will be included in the government s plan to improve housing for the National Police Service.Boinnet spoke when he visited Murang a police station on Tuesday on his way from Nyeri where he met security officers.He said the houses built in the 1980s are dilapidated and would be renovated to ensure police officers live comfortably. Boinnet served at the Murang a police station for two years in the mid 1980s.He said he is glad to be back at his former station, decades after he left. I m glad to see the police station is doing well, but the police quarters are in a poor state, he said. Boinnet, however, commended the high level of cleanliness, saying officers have maintained good standards at one of the oldest police stations in the country.He also visited the recently renovated police cells. The cells have modern toilets and the cracks on the walls have been repaired. In March, the Health department served the station with a 90-day ultimatum to renovate the cells or face closure. Public health officials had expressed alarm over the poor state of the cells which were at the verge of collapse.Some of the buildings had been condemned for demolition, but they were still being used as offices.Boinnet donated Sh200,000 for the renovation of the police canteen. Police officers are supposed to maintain cleanliness at all times to serve the public better, he said.The once-popular police canteen that served government officers from nearby courts and other departments has fallen into disrepair. Many people shun it due to poor services.Last month, police spokesman Charles Owino said at least 20,000 housing units will be constructed countrywide for the police service.The police service has partnered with the Africa Development Bank for the project, to begin this year. This is part of the reform process in the National Police Service where we want to improve the welfare and accommodation of our officers, through good housing, Owino said. He said this will help raise morale.In February, a parliamentary committee ordered the Interior ministry to audit all police housing units to root out unauthorised occupants. This followed reports some police officers rent out their official residences to members of the public, then rent cheaper houses outside their quarters.