I start this article by acknowledging that the majority of Kenyan police officers have a good sense of humanity. Their performance may not be stellar, but they have the patience required of a police officer, and are not quick to take actions that may lead to loss of life.Sadly, the overall image of the Police Service has suffered some serious dents in the past few years, thanks to a few trigger-happy cops whose first instinct is to spray live bullets at the first sign of trouble. The Kenya Police Service, which has been undergoing much needed reforms with the vetting of all cadres, is once again being viewed as savage, lethargic and out of touch.Life is sacred and, except in very special circumstances, no human being has the right to take it away. Thankfully, there are many techniques for crowd control and the option to use rubber bullets. Live bullets should always be the last resort.When dealing with protesting crowds, the role of the police is limited to providing security to ensure people and property are safe. Where it is deemed necessary to disperse the crowd, the first step is for the officers to use their authority and power of persuasion. Other options include baton charges, tear gas canisters and water cannon. Use of rubber bullets or, in the worst-case scenario, live bullets, should only be for self-defence or to prevent harming of other citizens or destruction of property. Even so, the aim should not be to kill but to immobilise and arrest. To end the life of a young Kenyan simply for taunting the police or throwing stones is both unfortunate and unacceptable. It cannot be explained in any other way. There is a finality that comes with death. Parents lose a child; children lose a parent; families lose a breadwinner; employers lose an employee and the country its citizen. And it is irreversible. It is even worse when those killed were not even part of the protest in the first place. They were going about their lives, oblivious of the chaos in one part of town only to end up as the unfortunate victims of police bullets. We saw such incidents during the anti-IEBC protests a few months ago.Interestingly, all police officers go through training in crowd control, and they are always cautioned not to use bullets. That the number of police killings have been on the rise despite prosecution of previous offenders and protests by human rights groups and the citizens themselves only points to the psychological burden some officers bear as they go about their duties. It could be because of poor working conditions, tough economic times and, or mental illness. To reverse the crisis, the National Police Service Commission, working with the Independent Police Oversight Authority must employ tough love . Offenders must be dealt with according to the law to send a message that possessing a gun does not give anyone the right to abuse it. Secondly and more fundamentally, all police officers must undergo regular training and frequent health check-ups to ascertain that those entrusted with weapons have the right temperament and are in the right state of mind. Finally, the government, through the relevant agencies, must sustain ongoing efforts to improve the working and living conditions of police officers across the country. It is dangerous to hand over a gun to an officer who lives in deplorable conditions and cannot even afford basic necessities for his or her family.The images of police killings beamed on television worldwide place Kenya in a precarious position where it always has to defend itself against accusations of human rights abuses. Let s all work together to gain the respect of citizens and protect our image locally and internationally.