Former IG David Kimaiyo has formally announced that he will vie for Elgeyo Marakwet Senator in 2017 and for president in 2022, should God allow it.Kimaiyo, who will vie against incumbent Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, noted he served in government for more than 35 years and was well-placed to take over.He said he was still consulting on the party under which he will run but sources revealed he was considering being an independent candidate or running on a Kanu or CCM party ticket.Murkomen is a key ally of Deputy President William Ruto and a defender of Jubilee. Jubilee has a strong following in the region but the Marakwet community has complained of being sidelined in government due to the sacking of many professionals from the region.The former Inspector General of Police could take advantage of the ruling coalition's weakness in the area.Regarding the presidency, Kimaiyo said: If God gives me time to live I will be on the presidential ballot paper in 2022 with others who will be vying." Ruto is one of them.Kimaiyo, who opted to retire as IG in December 2014, and was sacked from his KAA post by Pesident Uhuru Kenyatta in June, cited witch-hunt by some local politicians. He did not give names but said they accused him of being incompetent leading to his forced resignation. How can somebody say I am incompetent yet I have served for over three decades, diligently... without integrity issues, he said at AIC Kapsowar on Sunday. My record speaks for itself. I believe I was a victim of political witch-hunt but if elected I will protect the interests of all against injustices and conspiracy by individuals who want to curtail their services."[VIDEO] Only the corrupt work for Jubilee, says former IG KimaiyoKimaiyo lashed out at leaders who have only held political seats for a few years yet were "bragging about knowing everything in government".He said he will soon launch his campaign and blue print for the region. Some said he hinted at vying for the presidency in 2022, against Ruto, but he did not address this.Murkomen hit back at Kimaiyo on Sunday terming him a "pathological liar who is not telling the truth about his exit from the government".The Senator has been blamed for the former IG's woes following his demand for him to resign over the laxity of the police force at the time.But he noted he was not Kimaiyo s appointing authority at the time the former IG was in government. I do not know if he has a memory problem because when he resigned as IG he made it clear that he had sat and consulted with the President before quitting. He should tell us if that President he sat with was me or Ruto," he said. Kimaiyo says he is a Christian. He should tell us the truth instead of changing what he told the public when he quit as IG. He should also tell us if he is envious of the current IG who is also from Elgeyo Marakwet county."The Senator said Kimaiyo's decision to join politics "on a revenge mission" against he and Ruto was unreasonable.He defended his office saying he has performed well and needs another term to complete the projects he initiated. Murkomen said he has improved the county's profile nationally and wants to focus on education. I am very proud of my record in the last four years. I have the energy and willingness to do more for my people, he said. I have laid a very good foundation in representing my people and placing Elgeyo Marakwet on the conversation table with regard to development programmes."The Senate deputy majority leader added that he helped resettle squatters evicted from the Embobut Forest and developed schools.He said he will continue working to touch more lives, especially the youth's, whom he said need to be encouraged to pursue their dreams.But he will face tough competition for the party's ticket for the August 2017 election, from businessmen Benard Boit and John Kangogo who served as URP national executive committee members and are also close to Ruto.He said all the politicians will be judged by the public on account of their performance.