Hajj. In laymans term means to initiate a trip; to Muslims the word hajj means to embark on a journey of faith to the house of God or simply pilgrimage to Mecca.Hajj is an annual religious ritual, the fifth and last pillar of Islam after Shahada (believing in oneness of God), prayer, fasting and alms giving.Pilgrimage is obligatory and is performed once in the lifetime of a Muslim guaranteed they have physical, emotional and financial capabilities.This year s Hajj was attended by about two million people from across the world including 5000 Kenyans. The rituals started on Saturday during the month of Dhul Hijjah, the 12th month of the Islamic lunar calendar. The pilgrimage entails a five day ritual, where those on Hajj spend the days in the environs of the desert city of Mecca, Saudi Arabia.Mecca is regarded a holy city as it hosts Al-Masjid al-Haram, the Sacred Mosque. Non-Muslims are prohibited from entering the city.Hajj begins on the eighth day of the Dhu al-Hijjah lunar month, as per the Islamic calendar ending on the 13th day of Dhu al-Hijjah. It s the re-enactment of experiences of Prophet Abraham on selflessness and sacrifice as well as symbolises the lessons taught by Prophet Mohammed during his last sermon on the plain of Arafat. This is in remembrance and commemorate the sacrifices and life of Prophet Ibrahim alyhi salam and his family, Dr Osman Bakur Gazzaz head of Media and Mass Communication Research at the Research Institute for Hajj and Umrah in Mecca said.Ibrahim or Abraham together with his son Ismail, built the most revered structure, the Kaaba, a small square stone in the middle of the Masjid Al-Haram, where all Muslims around the world face when in prayers, he added.The rituals by the pilgrims culminate at the annual feast celebrations known as Eid al-Adha which is being marked today by Muslims around the world, as the 10th day of the Islamic month of Dhul al-Hijjah.It follows the descent of the pilgrims from Mount Arafat, a hill in Mecca believed to be where Prophet Mohammed gave his final sermon.Eid al-Adha which means festival of sacrifices, is marked with Muslims slaughtering an animal, usually a sheep a goat or a cow, to commemorate the day when Prophet Abraham was to sacrifice his son but instead God instructed him to offer an animal.COMMENCEMENT OF HAJJ RITESHajj rites begins by men pilgrims covering themselves with two white pieces of unsewn clothes known as ihraam before entering Meeqaat zones. For those travelling by air from Kenya for instance, they are instructed to adorn the ihraam shortly after overflying the Red Sea. Once you remove all sewn clothes and make intention for performing Hajj, you are now in ihraam state of religious purity, a reminder about departure from earth when you will be covered in two white clothes pieces once dead, Yakub Issa, a scholar at the institute said, adding that once in this state one is not permitted to shave, clip nails, spray perfume or cologne, bleed, have sexual intercourse or even propose marriage.He said the simple cloth is meant also to signify equality adding that once within the Meegat boundaries, the grounds stand for peace and quarrels, arguments and even withchhunting is prohibited.On arrival at Mecca, the pilgrim heads straight to the Sacred Mosque to perform tawaful al-Qudum which is pilgrimage ritual of walking all the way around the Ka aba (the sacred place) seven times, in an anticlockwise manner, offering supplications. This is to signify the unity of the believers.After the circling, the next ritual is performing Sa yee, which involves pacing back and forth between hills of Safa and Marwah, a distance which is about 450 metres apart. The pilgrim is supposed to go back and forth seven times symbolising the suffering and desperation Ibrahim s wife Hajar went through in search of water. This is to remind us when Prophet Ibrahim left his wife Hajar and son Ismael alone in the desert. Ismael started crying out of hunger, forcing the mother to seek water by running around between these mountains. Suddenly by the will of God, water started gushing out from the ground and it was in abundance- and that water is what is known as the zamzam water where the city was established. Dr Abdul Rahmeen said.After shuffling between Marwa and Safa, the pilgrim can then take the zamzam water in plenty and even carry some back to their homes. The water is believed to be blessed and a great gift. Other than its cooling and refreshing nature, Gazzaz said research shows that the water from the 35m deep well can cure many illnesses due to the nature of its composition that includes sodium, calcium, magnesium, potassium, bicarbonate chloride, fluoride, nitrates and sulphate. It s the best water in the world. It s free from germs and bacteria in its natural state. Other than increasing energy levels, the water corrects thyroid and eye disorders, increases blood platelets, treats heartburns and reduces acidity due its alkane nature, he said.On the eight day of Dhul Hijjah which was on Friday, pilgrims entered the state of ihraam again and set out for Mina as Prophet Muhammad did. They spent the whole day there performing the five prayers in a shortened manner in an act known as Tarwiyah.After the morning prayers on Saturday, the ninth day of Dhul Hijjah, the pilgrims headed to the mountain of Arafat also known as the Mountains of Mercy (Jabalur-Rahman). They stayed the whole day facing Mecca while praying, supplicating, repenting and seeking forgiveness until sunset.Whoever fails to be on Arafat on this day invalidates his or her Hajj. Arafat is believed to be the great plain where Muhammad gave his last summon, and is regarded as one of the greatest pillars of Hajj. The pilgrims standing at the plain for the whole day symbolises the lessons taught by Prophet Mohammed during his last sermon on the plain of Arafat, Dr Fawaz bin Ali said. It also supposed to teach Muslims patience to stand trials. Gathering of huge crowds at Arafat reminds us of the day of resurrection and how we will stand equal before Allah on the Day of judgement. It s a day the Prophet (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) said, There is no day on which Allah frees people from the fire more so than on the day of Arafah. He comes close to those (people standing on Arafah), he said.Muslims across the globe who aren t on pilgrimage fasted on the day of Arafat.After sunset the pilgrims left Arafat for Muzdalifah which is 13 kilometres away. Here they spent the night in prayers and collected seven pebbles of stone.On the 10th day of Dhul Hijjah, which is the first day of Eid (September 11 ), the pilgrims walked calmly between sunrise and night time to Jamaratul-Aqabah al-Kubraa (stoning of the devil) where they proceeded to throw seven stones at Jamarah, reciting Allah Akbar with every throw. It is not stoning the devil as widely understood, but it s an act of remembrance. The historical significance of the ritual hails from Prophet Ibrahim when the devil appeared to him three times. At each of the appearances, Angel Jibraeel (Gabriel) told Prophet Ibrahim (Abraham) to pelt the devil.Thus, the basis of the significance of the ritual, Gazzaz explains.After stoning, comes Eid al-Adha, the festival of sacrifices, which is being celebrated today.After the sacrifices, the pilgrims shave their hair and head back to Mecca for the final farewell, Tawaff - walking seven times around the Kaaba. Only then can they get back into their normal clothes and leave the city to their respective homes.Omission of any of the compulsory rituals will entail sacrificing an animal to complete Hajj, once one has completed the Hajj he assumes the Al-Hajj title. Other than cleansing faithfuls of sins and bringing them closer to God, pilgrimage to Muslims is aimed at teaching about equality of mankind, a reminder of the grand assembly on the Day of Judgment when people will stand equal before God waiting for their final destiny, Gazzaz said.Upon completion of Hajj, Gazzaz adds that one is like a newborn with no sins and better than what he was. Hajj teaches patience, humility and being remorseful. It s a must for every Al-hajj to become better people not only for themselves but for those around them as well. This is through acts of humility service, honesty while staying away from sinful activities. he explained.IMPORTANCE OF MEDINAApart from performing the Hajj rites and though not obligatory, pilgrims take time to visit Medina and make prayers at Masjid Al-Nabawi, the Prophet s Mosque and Masjid Quba, the first mosque to be built in Islam history.It is believed have been built by Prophet Muhammad when immigrating from Mecca. However, it was completed by his companions. It is said to be second largest and prestigious mosque in the city. Visiting these mosques is of great value as one prayer at the Prophet s Mosque is better than 1,000 prayers elsewhere and whoever makes a prayer at Quba Mosque, the reward is like that of an Umrah, Abdulmalik Sani, a staff member at Medina Mosque Quran exhibition said. He however added that a prayer at the Grand Mosque in Mecca had more weight as it is better that 100,000 prayers elsewhere.In Medina, pilgrims get an opportunity to visit Islam s most historical sites, especially one that is at the foot of Mount Uhud where the second battle on preservation of Islam was fought, claiming the lives of among others, Prophet Mohammad s uncle Hamza. The battle is regarded as one of the most important and paramount battles of the Islamic history.At the foot of the mountain, there is an enclosure that contains the graves of Hamza, Abdullahi bin Jasht and Mus ab bin Umair.Behind it are more graves of other martyrs killed in the battle of Uhud.At the Prophet s Mosque in Medina, pilgrims also get an opportunity to visit the tomb of Prophet Muhammad which is attached to the site of the mosque. There is also museums that documents the life and deeds of Muhammad, the first ever Quran, the largest Quran and how the production of the Quran script is rolled out as well the Names of Allah Museum, he explained.Another historically important mosque in Medina for pilgrims is the Masjid Qiblatayn, which means a masjid of two Qiblas. The mosque acquired the name because it is believed that Prophet Muhammad got command to change the direction of prayers (otherwise known as Qibla) from Jerusalem s Al Aqsa mosque to Mecca s Al-Haram. On receiving the order, the congregation led by the companions changed the direction of prayers to Mecca till to date thus the mosque has two niches also known as mihrabs.Qiblatayn is among three earliest documented mosques in the history of Islam.Mecca and Medina are believed to be the cities where most scriptures of the Quran were revealed to Prophet Muhammad. The two cities are considered sacred to Muslims and therefore non-Muslims are not allowed in. To enforce this, boundaries and sign boards are erected about 10km away from the cities indicating where the non-Muslims should not go beyond.