The Kitui man who stored the corpses of his wife and daughter at home for more than three years eats snakes and dogs, his neighbours have said. If he found us killing a snake, he would tell us it provides good meat. He would cut its head and disappear with it. He bought dogs for Sh400 and cats, but we never saw them at his home, neighbour Jane Munyoki said yesterday of Kitu Munyoki.She said whenever neighbours asked him where he takes the animals, he would say owls ate them.Munyoki on Tuesday said his wife left instructions she should not be buried because she and her daughter will return in nine years. He said his wife, Ndila, died in 2014, while their daughter died in 2013.Munyoki was arrested on Friday last week. On Monday, he was charged with failing to report the deaths. He pleaded guilty. Detectives asked for seven days to investigate.Munyoki preserved the bodies using herbs. He is said to have applied petroleum jelly to the bodies daily as he awaited the resurrection. Police said the bodies were remarkably well preserved. Mortuary attendants at Migwani Subcounty Hospital said they cannot explain why the bodies are still in good condition. The intestines had been removed, and neighbours said they suspect Munyoki ate them. They said Munyoki lived peacefully with them, but did not have visitors and had strange behaviours.Neighbour David Mwikali said he used to visit Munyoki s family before his wife and child disappeared. Everything seemed okay, although the wife complained of severe chest pains. She refused to take drugs and lived on the herbs her husband collected from the bush. The last time I saw her four years ago, she coughed until she fainted as she breastfed, he said.David said Ndila disappeared shortly after. He said Munyoki told neighbours Ndila had travelled to see her parents in Tala, Machakos county, so no one bothered to dig deeper to find out it was true or not . Jane said Munyoki was a hardworking man who was able to carry many logs, which other men struggled to push, let alone carry . He had energy no one could understand. If you gave him any job, he could do it in no time and he never quarrelled with anybody, she said.Jane said Munyoki s daughter had the strange habit of barking like a dog twice a day early in the morning and in the evening . She said the boy never went to school, but spoke fluent Kiswahili like someone from the Coast .