The recruitment of the new Moi University Vice Chancellor has once again the thrust tribalism issue into public focus. We are now called upon as a people to proffer real solutions to this problem. To do so, we must understand that for Kenya to be a true nation, all her citizens must feel that national resources belong to and are shared equally by all.Tribalism and its resultant politics of exclusion are no doubt a grave concern in Kenya. This is the reason several provisions of the Constitution are dedicated to treating this social evil. For example, Article 10 provides that our national values and principles of governance include patriotism, national unity, equity, social justice, inclusiveness, non-discrimination and protection of the marginalised. In the discharge of its mandate, the National Cohesion and Integration Commission has published reports on ethnic audits of public offices, all of which indicate that the state organs, corporations and public offices are deeply ethnicised. This is more so under the Jubilee administration where these offices, both locally and in foreign missions, are largely a preserve of people from the two tribes of the President and the Deputy President. Out of 21 Cabinet secretary positions, 11 of them the biggest in terms of budgetary portfolio and influence are occupied by people from Central Kenya and the Rift Valley. The situation worsens when one looks at the principal secretary positions, state corporations and universities. It is tribalism to appoint an individual to public office based on tribe, just as it is to deny a qualified person a job in the public service simply for the same reason. The situation would be worse if we were to seek to deal with the issue of ethnicity selectively in one institution, without looking at the ethnic composition of all the other institutions. In respect of Moi University, the government advertised the position of Vice Chancellor and invited all qualified Kenyans to apply. The advertisement didn t say that one should not apply if he comes from the community in which the university is based. It was sufficient that an applicant was a Kenyan and had the specified qualifications.The government proceeded to shortlist candidates who were then subjected to an interview. It is acknowledged that Prof Isaac Kosgey emerged top, was duly qualified and should have been easily appointed to the position by Education CS Fred Matiang i. But Matiang i has failed to make a substantive appointment; and has instead appointed Prof Laban Ayiro in an acting capacity. The matter has taken a political twist, with elected leaders protesting the discriminatory failure to appoint Prof Kosgey. Both the NCIC and Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery have weighed in and ordered the arrest of the leaders, saying they are promoting tribalism and ethnic hatred. Denying Prof Kosgey the position he so merits is not the cure to negative ethnicity and the politics of exclusion in this country. Indeed, it is tribalism to appoint Prof Ayiro as the VC simply because he is not a Nandi. It is equally tribalism to deny Prof Kosgey the position he duly qualified to be appointed to simply because he is Nandi. We can t purvey tribalism while purporting to fight the scourge. The ethnic composition and leadership of our other universities does not help. What is needed is a holistic audit and restructuring of all public offices to ensure they accord with the constitutional requirement of ethnic and regional balance,Kenya remains a country of ethnic sub-nations due to negative ethnicity and exclusion practiced by successive government regimes since independence. A piecemeal approach to dealing with the malaise of tribalism will not suffice. What is needed is a holistic audit and restructuring of all public offices to ensure they accord with the constitutional requirement of ethnic and regional balance, guaranteeing all Kenyans equal opportunity to serve in public service and to enjoy the resources of this nation.Peter Kaluma, MP. HOMA BAY TOWN