Kisoi Munyao, whose father climbed Mt Kenya to hoist the new nation's flag on the eve of Independence, joined the Jubilee Party during our launch at Kasarani Stadium. Those who know and love Kenya's history were moved; they could not help but feel that a circle had closed. On the day, the deep historical notes were clear in President Uhuru Kenyatta's speech. From his opening invocation of his first name to the reflections in political history that rang out across the packed stadium. Time and again, he argued that Kenya has two choices: To remain united, or to divide along the lines of its diversity. Whenever we have been united, all that is good in Kenya has been made better but whenever we have been divided, everything bad worsened.The argument made vivid by examples from the heated ideological politics of the early post-independence period to the constitutional referendum of 2005 is that unity is an essential condition for this nation to flourish.If that sounds like a platitude to you, you haven't been paying attention to Kenya's politics for a while. The view that Kenyans are irredeemably divided, and that division may be the country's best hope, has hardened into dogma in parts of the political class and the commentariat. That is how we ended up with David Ndii's "Reke Tumanwo" debate. Adult Kenyans in possession of high academic qualifications some with doctorates from the Oxford University seriously suggested that Kenyans would be better off giving up their country.The President's speech set out a different and more compelling vision. First, there is acknowledgement of the deep goodness of Kenyans: Kenyans love their neighbours, just as they remember all those who suffered in the past because of our divisions. That goodness means we can't give up on the unity that makes us what we are. He said, "The pain of the past means that all of us must work for reconciliation. That responsibility falls on every Kenya but it falls, especially heavily on those of us who are called to lead. It is we who must lead the effort of healing and reconciling this country. That, fellow Kenyans, is why we are here today.''That paragraph puts the likes of Ndii in their place. Pundits will pontificate, Presidents have nations to reconcile and heal. Presidents, that is to say, have nations to lead. Now, everyone knows Kenya's troubled history. What matters is what we make of it. We can take the pain of the past as a reason to despair of unity; that is the path of the pundits. The better choice is the President's: To lead the reconciliation that this country still needs, and to bring new unity out of old divisions. The President knows time, momentum, and the mood of the nation are all on his side."Our generation has learnt from your mistakes. We refuse to make them all over again. We cannot go back. We will not go back. Let this generation fulfil its responsibility and destiny to lead us on a path of unity to reach the heights that you once dreamt of."To him, and to his party, belong to that special place reserved for African political parties that have the young on their side. That, indeed, may account for his confidence in the project of reconciliation.In all, the speech is a fascinating glimpse into the mind of the President. It reveals a keen student of Kenya's history: One who has thought deeply about it, who has learned its lessons, and one who has now earned his place in it. Sakaja is a nominated MP and arguably leader of Kenya's youth movement