Imagine leading a 10km race only to be overtaken by three people in the final 100m, getting a stomach ache in the middle of a half marathon, and training for a full marathon only to miss it entirely after mistaking the date.Such moments ought to have pushed me into retirement a long time ago, but an amateur runner s curse is the eternal pursuit of redemption. 2011: Shady preparationsI thought I d found a smart way to finish 21km in this city in the sun without getting my eyes fried. I mean, why wasn t everyone wearing sunglasses? It looked like such an obvious trick to the trade. Well, I didn t feel so smart when I got to the starting line and realised I d forgotten my shades in the changing bag. I dashed back to get them and returned to find the runners had long taken off.2005: Premature accelerationYou are in the frontline huddle 400m to the end of a 10km race. Adrenaline kicks in. Full speed ahead! Sadly, by the time you get to the last 100m, you are out of gas. The buggers you thought you d shown dust are right on your heels. One by one, they pass you, and you can only wish you could get away with tripping them.2015: Calendar malfunctionI missed what would have been my milestone 10th year in the Stanchart Marathon races last year. The official line has been that my knee was injured. While indeed I wasn t a 100 per cent fit, truth is, I was caught napping on race day. I knew it was always on the last Sunday of the month, but was deceived when it fell farthest possible from end-month (25th out of 31 days) into thinking it was the following weekend. So I lounged in the house like a cat, strolled out at midday to empty the trash, and alas, my neighbour was in a sweaty Stanchart shirt. Had he been jogging? I asked. No, he was returning from the race. Didn t you see it on TV? he asked, as my jaw hit the floor.2007: Porridge nightmareThis was a case of taking instructions too seriously. The race manual included tips like taking porridge ahead of the race. Boy, did I take a lot of it. With my inflated tummy bouncing as I raced, the beverage thrashed around and reacted like a Chemistry lab experiment. I pity those who had the misfortune of running behind me as I started belching and farting. The portable toilets roadside were soiled by other runners own nightmares and out of tissue paper, so I stayed pressed for hours until I got back home. I ve since run twice the distance, but that was my longest race ever.2010: Fire in the pantsStitches and blisters come with the territory in long-distance running, but I once developed a unique sensation after a poor choice of running shorts. The netting inside it chafed mercilessly against my manhood as I ran and started gluing itself to the inside of my thigh. I kept tugging my shorts down, thinking it was sweat, but was shocked to find after the race that it was actually blood. I would never have recovered from the embarrassment if my shorts weren t black and thus able to conceal the stain.