It is in the national interest to resolve this clash between right and right. Since the EACC and DPP are not in a hurry to settle the doubts around the IEBC, there should be a political solutionIt is understandable when right fights wrong. But when right battles right, there is need to reason. Deploying selective memory to score political points subverts the national interest.The discord between the opposition and the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission is a clash of two rights. There is, therefore, need for a rational third party to broker the stalemate.There is a constitutional threshold for evicting the IEBC. The constitution also protects the right to public demonstrations. But politicians who crave political correctness cannot tell the difference between steak-holding and public good.The worst mental block on the eve of the 2017 general election is amnesia. A people who forget the mistakes of history are bound to repeat the same mistakes. A freak electoral agency is of no value in the long run.On April 29, 2014, rabble rouser Comrade Wafula Buke petitioned Parliament to eject the IEBC commissioners. The petition accused the IEBC of incompetence and procurement improprieties.The petition alleged the IEBC, which Issack Hassan chairs, showed incompetence during the elections of 2013, when a record six positions were contested. Biometric Voter Registration kits and electronic voter identification devices collapsed when they should have boosted public confidence in the electoral system. The IEBC used manual registers that were open to manipulation.The Buke petition also cited irregularities in the acquisition of these devices. Former senior IEBC officials are in court for procurement-related offences. But the commissioners, including the chairman, have not taken responsibility for the scandal.A London court jailed two executives of Smith &amp; Ouzman, the UK firm that supplied electoral materials, for bribing election officials. The United Kingdom s Serious Fraud Office established that Sh50m was paid to former officials of the defunct Interim Independent Electoral Commission to influence the procurement of materials during the Shinyalu, South Mugirango and Bomachoge by-elections, and the 2010 constitution referendum.A Mauritania government minister was also arrested for involvement in criminal practices with Smith &amp; Ouzman. But the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission is yet to charge anyone with the ChickenGate scam.The scandal adds another layer of dirt to allegations against the electoral commission. The EACC s delay in concluding investigations against local chicken-eaters is not a proof of innocence. The failure of the Director of Public Prosecutions to prosecute is not a defence. The two agencies have also been accused of politics-inspired incompetence. Chapter Six of the constitution on integrity in public office has been breached.Cord, the Law Society of Kenya, the National Council of Churches of Kenya, civil society groups and trade unions doubt the IEBC s integrity. They want the electoral agency reconstituted.The 2007-08 post-election violence, and the disputed 2013 presidential election, inform the need for a credible electoral agency. Critics say because this commission is gullible, it cannot preside over free and fair elections.There are reasonable grounds to eject the IEBC commissioners Article 251 of the constitution cites incompetence and contravention of Chapter Six.