A group of young men demonstrated outside Parliament Buildings in October 2014, demanding removal of Emgwen MP Alex Kosgey over absenteeism. They earlier had invoked the constitution and petitioned the National Assembly to remove him for going AWOL.Unbeknownst to many, the engineer of the scheme was 23-year-old Meshack Kimutai, Kosgey s childhood friend. He is a businessman, chairman of the Kenya Youth Alliance and a man with political ambitions.Why would he try to topple a friend from the coveted and lucrative seat? He has failed. The voice of the people of Emgwen is not being felt in the House, 25-year old Kimutai says. He has not uttered [a word] in the House and there is evidence he missed eight consecutive sittings, [a precondition] necessary for his recall. This could be interpreted as a betrayal, however, Kimutai is a man who doesn t let old-time friendship stand in the way of what he says is right for the people of Emgwen. Some might say he doesn t let friendship get in the way of his personal ambition.Kimutai is unmoved. He did his own research on his friend and says Kosgey missed 68 plenary sessions and eight committee sittings since he was sworn in in 2013.Kimutai cites the constitution on grounds for removal. He says there s no evidence Kosgey had written to the speaker seeking leave of absence.In his defence Kosgey, the son of former Industrialisation minister Henry Kosgey, said he was committed to his parliamentary duties and has been attending to his plenary, committee and constituency obligations, as required.After failing in the parliamentary route, Kimutai is now determined to remove the MP by personally unseating him next year. My name will be on the ballot. I m sure I ll beat him hands down, he said.Kimutai is banking on the initiatives he has spearheaded to capture the seat. Through his Meshack Kimutai Foundation, he started a sacco for youth, women and people living with disability in Kapsabet town.It brings together about 100 groups and the largest has borrowed Sh8.6 million, which it used to start a matatu business. Kimutai has also arranged trainings for Emgwen farmers in best agricultural practices and organised trips for them to Egypt and Israel. He has taken them on fi eld trips to agricultural society shows in Eldoret. I believe I can do more for the people. My plan will be to invest in youth, he said confidently. Kimutai is urging young people run for office next year.