Coast journalists yesterday protested against the increasing cases of harassment, threats, assaults and deaths believed to have been engineered by the state, politicians or persons of interest.They delivered their petition to Coast regional coordinator Nelson Marwa.The journalists said since 1998, they have not been unable to operate freely in the region. Threats, harassment and intimidation against individual journalist have turned uglier and degenerated into actual assault and even mysterious deaths, the petition reads.Eastern African Journalist Association executive member Maureen Mudi urged for speedy investigations over journalists deaths. We lost Joseph Masha mysteriously, another one got his camera damaged at the court and threatening text messages have been received, she said.Mudi said Star cameraman Elkana Jacob was briefly arrested for reporting a story on unfair dismissal of some traffic officers.The petition listed and detailed assault and deaths that have mostly taken since 2013.They scribes are worried that should the state fail to act quick, the situation might get out of hand as electioneering period nears.Marwa said some cases are under investigation. He said those yet to be investigated will be looked into. I assure you that these serious concerns raised will be looked into. It is our duty to protect you, he said.This month Masha, a Standard reporter, collapsed and died at his home in Kilifi. It is suspected he was poisoned.In April last year, Behemiah Okwemba (NTV), Reuben Ogachi (Citizen TV), Tana River county information officer Ali Wario were brutally attacked by GSU at ADC Galana Ranch.In March last year, Kwale Standard correspondent Tobias Chanji was kidnapped by unknown people. They had introduced themselves as police before chaining him to a tree in a forest in Diani. They said officers lured him to homestead of terror suspect Hassan Suleiman Mwayuyu before they confiscated his laptop and camera, the petition says.In March 2013, then Star newspaper reporter Benard Wesonga was found dead in his house with blood oozing from his mouth. Days before he died, Wesonga had told his colleagues that he had received anonymous threatening calls over two articles he had authored on importation of expired fertilisers, the petition says.In January 2013, freelance journalist Paul Masese, who was based in Mombasa, was shot eight times and killed. The petition said rights' groups reported week before his death that he had received threats over an article he wrote over old cars from Japan with high radiation levels.In late 1999, then Nation reporter Wanjoho Mwaniki fell in a bathroom in an entertainment joint and died.Scribes believe all these incidents are connected to stories they authored. Those who survived feel danger still looms large.