Kenya Airways flights continue to stir safety concerns after a Juba-bound flight was delayed for hours on Wednesday mornig due to yet another technical hitch. Following the rising technical problems, the government has now set up a team of experts to investigate operations at the national airline.Transport Principal secretary revealed on Thursday three committees: human resource, risk and assurance committees have set up to conduct a survey on the carrier, which will inform the necessary changes.A massive brain drain at the troubled airline code-named KQ has left its technical department greatly understaffed causing delays and safety concerns, the Star recently established.This has caused an increase in flight disruptions and cancellations due to technical hitches for loss of engineers who have been poached by rich Middle East airlines Qatar Airways and Emirates. At least 50 engineers are reported to have resigned from KQ this year, with more set to leave. The brain drain issue has been brought to our attention and is a matter being reviewed. We know some people are going to the likes of Emirates. We are waiting for recommendations from the committee then we will know what action to take, Nyakera told the Star in an interview.He said the government is putting safety at the highest level , adding that it is working with the Kenya Airline Pilots Association to address issues about the airline. Kalpa knows our position on the same. We are doing the assessment which is at an advanced stage including looking at the capacity inside the airline, Nyakera said.He said other areas being addressed are the airline s high ticket prices and operations which will determine the much needed changes.In a letter seen by The Star,Kalpa has written to the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority's director general Gilbert Kibe, requesting him to look into the matter, which could affect the airline's safety record. "Resignations have become the order of the day and moreso within the technical department. This is a very critical department, and this high attrition has led to a galore of flight cancellations, aircraft technical issues and even air turn turnbacks," states the letter dated August 31 signed by Kalpa secretary general Captain Paul Gichinga.KQ has suffered sevral flight delays recently. "The declined investment in KQ particularly on maintenance of planes as a result of budget cuts is a recipe for disaster," said Consumer Federation of Kenya secretary general Stephen Mutoro. "The matter is causing low morale among pilots because some are declining to fly some planes because of their poor conditions." Other than a weakened technical department, the national carrier is also facing an exodus by pilots. This year, 67 pilots have left the company lured by better pay offered by Qatar Airways, Emirates, Etihad as well as East Africa's Rwandair. KQ is facing troubled times with a serious cash hitch, amid complaints of deteriorating service and high airfares. On July 26, the airline announced a Sh26.2 billion after tax loss for the full year ended March 31, a wider loss than the historic Sh25.7 billion loss it posted the previous yearKalpa has on several occasions this year called for the exit of Kenya Airways CEO Mbuvi Ngunze, saying he lacks capacity to return the carrier to profitability.KCAA on Thursday issued a statement of rising flight incidents in the country but did not mention any KQ incident. The authority's director general Kibe told the Star he will comment on this issue later on Friday but had not done so by time of going to press.