Politically, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho is a man on the rise. A self-made man, Joho began his political career as Kisauni Member of Parliament and went on to become an assistant Minister.Main story: Joho to lead Raila 2017 election teamHe is working very hard to assume more responsibilities in Kenya s largest opposition party, ODM. And he wants to be President in 2022.Recent developments have helped fuel the Mombasa Governor s rising political star. To begin with, he has been the Jubilee government s loudest critic on policies concerning historical injustices in the Coast region, including land reforms. Quite loudly and publicly, Joho has dared Jubilee leaders on these issues, most notably the Waitiki land at Likoni, Mombasa. Joho has also complained of being sidestepped by the Jubilee government every time the President visited Mombasa. All these complaints have laced Joho s criticisms against the government.In particular, during the recent celebrations in Mombasa to mark 10 years since the founding of ODM, Joho minced no words in criticising Jubilee policies and declaring himself to be in the opposition to stay. He has gone on the record saying no one can buy him to join the wrong political camp.ODM s victory over Jubilee in the Malindi by-election earlier this year emboldened Joho s twin ambitions as Coast regional kingpin and the presidency. At the by-election, Joho was the chief campaigner, organizer and paymaster. The Jubilee government s reaction towards its defeat on March 7 only emboldened Joho as the man to watch in Coast politics. Some people here have regarded his unparalleled criticism of government as the hallmark of his political daring. In fact, it was after the Malindi by-election victory that Joho got the courage to tell the world that he wants the presidency. But Joho has a lot to do to fulfill his twin ambitions of being the coastal political kingpin and entering the Presidency in 2022. He remains unknown a Mombasa county politician. In Mombasa, Governor Joho s policies appear to favour the minority communities of his own extraction the Arab and Arab-Africans. He needs to build a regional vote bloc to sustain his quest to become the regional kingpin and the nation s President. And now that Joho is increasingly becoming influential in ODM, he could position himself for both the regional kingpin position and the Presidency. But we have seen other equally ambitious young politicians rise up and fall.Joho s meteoric rise to regional and national political prominence could well mark the beginning of his downfall.