A humanitarian crisis looms in Garissa county as thousands of pastoralist families grapple with worsening drought.A large population is stricken by the persistent dry spell. Water sources are drying up, pastures depleted and livestock and human lives threatened. Victims have appealed to the government and the international community to speedily intervene.Residents rely heavily on the few remaining water points. The water is unsafe. It has changed colour and developed a foul smell due to contamination.They converge there with their animals to share the limited resource for survival. Fresh buffalo carcasses were strewn 100 metres from one of the water points. Residents said they died of exhaustion.Many people have to trek more than 30 kilometres to get water for drinking and domestic use.Ijara subcounty is one of the worst-hit areas. Schools and health facilities are on the verge of shut-down. Administrators fear keeping the children and patients around because it could expose them to more danger.Residents said waterborne diseases such as cholera could easily break out and spread because they lack clean water.A spot check showed children already show symptoms of waterborne diseases such as diarrhoea. When the Star visited the only water dam in Korisa location in Ijara subcounty, it was a beehive of activities. Residents were busy drawing the visibly foul-smelling contaminated water. At some points, they had to compete with thirsty livestock and wild animals.Scores of goats and cows, which were weak and emaciated after long treks, became stuck in the mud. Owners had to pull them out. Thirsty wild animals are fighting with people over access to the only water source in this area. Residents were forced to take turns day and night to keep buffaloes away from the dam. But now we have given up, resident Haret Nasteh said. It s extremely risky to ward off the thirsty animals as they come in big numbers and force themselves in to drink the water. He said most livestock moved deep into Boni Forest, which lies between Ijara and Lamu, as the drought worsened. This is our only water source. We urgently appeal to the government and international community to come to our aid. The problem is getting out of hand fast, Nasteh said.According to the Garissa county s National Drought Management Authority, the dry spell has reached an alarming stage.It said unlike previous dry spells, which only affected families in the hinterlands, the current drought has destabilised people living along rivers. Human-wildlife conflict has surged. Thirsty wild animals invade human settlement to get water.Acting NDMA county coordinator Abdinoor Dubow said although there are no deaths of livestock so far, it is unavoidable, unless there is urgent intervention. He said most livestock markets are not functioning and the purchasing power of the pastoralists has dropped significantly. We appeal to donors to intervene as the situation is getting out of hand, Dubow said.