About a week ago Koigi wa Wamwere penned a piece in your paper trying to persuade us that the new Jubilee is the party to join. I beg to differ and strongly so. First the new outfit is erected on the quicksand of ethnic politics and sooner rather than later the jubilation bubble is bound to burst. Jubilee brigade has been jumping all over town, trumpeting the coming together of TNA and URP as historic claiming they are now introducing ideology-based. This sounds promising until you look closely and realize that this union symbolizes everything that has gone awfully wrong in our politics. The merger is also hopelessly fragile because the small parties will literary have no breathing space. In the highly satirical book Animal Farm, George Orwell aptly captures what has unfolded in Jubilee. In this marriage, some animals (read URP and TNA) are certainly more equal than others. The other parties are inconsequential and will merely be performing the role of flower girls. To put it in President Uhuru Kenyatta s lingo, these small entities will just be salivating for the juicy meat as TNA and URP munch away sumptuous pieces. If you asked me, even Deputy President William Ruto will not get the meat that is close to the bone, which is said to be the sweetest. The prospect of him being handed a raw deal looks quite real. Why? While Uhuru Kenyatta has been able to marshal the whole of Central region to strongly rally behind the new political outfit, you can hardly say the same of Ruto. There is a palpable disquiet in his backyard. The fact that the number of party delegates during the Kasarani merger was heavily tilted in favour of TNA did not help matters. What happened to the 50-50 sharing of the spoils?When the idea of the merger was mooted, a section of URP leadership protested loudly saying they had not been consulted. Ruto did not listen to these alternative voices. He just haughtily brushed them aside and railroaded all and sundry into the Jubilee Party bandwagon. However, the likes of Bomet governor Isaac Ruto called the DP bluff and adamantly gave the merger a wide berth. Now the governor has teamed up with Kanu s Gideon Moi and the battle could be best described as the Rumble in the Rift . With such disquiet, there are bound to be fall-outs of major proportion in Jubilee Party in Rift Valley, particularly during nominations. These fallouts will certainly swell the ranks of Gideon-Isaac camp. Already the duo has eaten deeply into DP s support in Rift Valley. This was clearly brought home during the by-elections for Senate in Kericho. Kanu gave URP a real scare and in fact there are claims flying around that the latter did not win it fairly. Therefore, sooner rather than later Ruto will pay a heavy price for not listening and taking into consideration the views of the people and leaders from his backyard. This will have immense ramifications as his standing will be deeply diminished in the eyes of TNA section of Jubilee Party. The question will be; how can he enjoy the same juicy meat with Uhuru when he has lost control of his home turf? Such a question will be potentially disastrous for Jubilee.Something else about this merger; Jubilee has been eager to robustly project this as a positive development in our democratic trajectory. However, keen political analysts and observers have expressed deep reservations about the move. These concerns are not unfounded. We have seen disconcerting signs that we could be on our way to one-party dictatorship if we allow Jubilee to be the ones defining for us what democracy entails. It may not be coincidence that the new party shares colours with Kanu. Yet Wamwere wants us to believe that finally we have a party founded on ideology! If you want to know the intention of Jubilee, just look at their record in the last four years. Is there anything to smile about? Talk of Eurobond, National Youth Service scandal, the rip-off that is the standard gauge railway, the scam that is the laptop project for pupils, and the list is endless. Tell me one project this government has rolled out that has not been assailed by corruption? The report of the auditor general is invariably a narrative on how Kenya is being looted with abandon since Uhuruto came to office.We have also witnessed attempts to roll back the cherished freedoms that Kenyans have attained through blood, sweat and tears. The freedom of the press has faced real threat of being significantly curtailed. Through tyranny of numbers, Jubilee has steamrolled the voice of the Opposition in Parliament. The Opposition MPs and Senators have an unequivocal constitutional mandate to keep the government on toes but Jubilee has erected all imaginable roadblocks to bar them from executing this crucial national duty. The economy is on its knees with the public debt at an alarmingly astronomical level. Even global institutions such as the World Bank have raised the red flag, warning us that we are treading on a dangerous ground. But against all economic logic, Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich has the guts to tell us that the piling debt is still within acceptable limits and that if anything we are far from touching the ceiling. With such a catalogue of malpractices, should we really be trusting Jubilee when they tell us that they seek to expand democratic space with this merger business? What we need is complete change. Jubilee is a continuation of an entrenched system that has bred negative ethnicity and corruption in a mind-boggling scale. It has nurtured patronage, complacency and lethargy in public service. The time to run away from the abyss is now. We must make a clean break by voting for alternative leadership in 2017. I believe a Cord administration under the presidency of Raila Odinga is capable of providing leadership that will save us from this parlous situation and truly transform the lives of Kenyans. This an alliance that has the real chance of beating Jubilee and saving this country from further plunder.