More than 10 women MPs from the Jubilee Party have pledged to support each other in their quest for different political seats in the 2017 general elections.The MPs dismissed those writing them off because of their gender and marital status.They were led by National Assembly Deputy Speaker Joyce Laboso and Runyenjes MP Cecily Mbarire, who are both eyeing the governor's seats in Bomet and Embu counties respectively.Read: Council of governors 'is not a men's club', Laboso says We want to appeal to the electorates to have confidence in women and give them a chance. We asked to be judged on what we have done as MPs and not merely on our gender, Laboso said on Sunday.More on this: JP wants women to clinch top seats in party strongholdsThey were speaking at the launch of their countrywide campaign dubbed 'Women for Women' in Bomet county. They dismissed area Governor Isaac Rutto s newly formed Chama cha Mashinani and termed Bomet as a Jubilee zone. We have come to tell you that the party to be in is Jubilee. Those refusing to join this party will be swept to political oblivion, Mbarire said.She also appealed to the electorate to make their decision based on their development record.Also read: Governor Rutto s 2017 game plan We have seen and heard our competitors run out of tangible issues to campaign against us. But we are happy that many will not be judging us on our gender or where we are married but rather what we have done, she added.Others present were Senate Deputy Majority Leader Beatrice Elachi and Nairobi woman rep Rachel Shebesh. MPs Alice Wahome (Kandara), Esther Nyambura (Ruiru), Regina Ndambuki (Kilome), Mary Wambui (Othaya), and Peris Tobiko (Kajido East) also attended the function. Others were MPs Zipporah Kering (Nandi County) and Cecilia Ngetich (Bomet County).Shebesh, while drumming up support for Laboso, said the Kalenjin community has led in electing women as MPs. We want you to continue giving women a chance. You gave us the late Lorna Laboso, Beatrice Kones, and Joyce Laboso. We urge you to support Laboso s quest for governorship in the 2017 general elections, she said.