Kakamega Homeboyz Vs AFC Leopards Sunday 4pmMy Prediction: Kakamega Homeboyz 2-1 IngweThis may be a Cup tie but we still have to look into how they are performing in the league to assess the probable outcome here. These teams are neck and neck in the league giving as much as they are taking. I think they are both suffering from inconsistency in the league although they have both won some key games but then lost or drawn others that they should have won. After 19 matches, both clubs have won just seven games with Ingwe get one more draw than Homeboyz. Both clubs won last weekend in the league; Ingwe against Sony and Homeboyz against Chemelil. But Homeboyz have lost against the likes of Ushuru while Ingwe has gone down to Muhoroni youth. Both teams have a squad of talented players capable of winning any game. I would like to predict a draw but I m going to bite the bullet here and go for a Homeboyz victory even though I know Ingwe is strong in Mumia. I think they ve been scraping some of these results and it s time to face the music.Nakumatt FC Vs Bandari Friday 3:15pmMy Prediction: Nakumatt 1-0 BandariThis game looks non consequential from the face of things but imagine it s a repeat of last seasons GOtv Shield final. Yes! Nakumatt were finalists while Bandari won the title. It was the first major title for the Coast team that smashed Nakumatt 4-2 in a sort of one-sided final. Although Bandari had a pretty decent 2015 season they are somewhat struggling this term. They are 10th in the KPL standings and despite a 4-0 victory over Ushuru recently they have been scraping the points. This is a cup tie so it doesn t matter that Nakumatt play in the second tier. Their desire will be strong. This game by the way will have been played by the time you re reading this; so this prediction is just to gloat that I would have been right. Gor Mahia Vs Nairobi Stima Saturday 3pmMy Prediction: K ogalo 3-0 StimaEven though I predict a weekend of upsets, it won t happen here. Gor Mahia are rather focused right now and they have a pretty easy outing today against Nairobi Stima. K ogalo like to win every game regardless of the tournament and they have the players and class to do so! I just hope the birthday boy re Coach Ze Maria didn t over celebrate and focused on a win here. I won t even dwell much on this game because it is a total mismatch.