Political analysts have hailed Nairobi senator Mike Sonko and Bishop Margaret Wanjiru as the people to watch in the race to unseat Governor Evans Kidero.Barack Muluka and Martin Andati are of the opinion that the two have an upper hand in winning the Jubilee Party nomination.Sonko, Wanjiru are fighting for the party's ticket alongside MPs Dennis Waweru (Dagoretti South) Johnson Sakaja (nominated).The aspirants have agreed to support whoever will win the party s ticket in the primaries to be held early 2017. Analysts, in what can be perceived as dismissal of the influence of the other candidates, says the two are the most experienced politicians in the Jubilee camp. Their argument is based on the fact that the duo have been in politics longer than the rest, with Sonko likely to beat the group in the nominations."Sonko has a special appeal to the youths and poor in the populous Eastlands for standing with them in times of disasters. He knows how to be at the right place at the right time for the right reasons," Muluka said. Muluka said Sakaja and Waweru are nondescripts in Nairobi politics and further dismissed Wanjiru as political hangers on. Read: Tough race for Nairobi governor as Kidero, Sonko flex muscles He said Wanjiru lacks a political clout to match Sonko, adding that the latter's opponents in the race for the JP ticket lack political persuasion in Nairobi."They cannot marshal support for themselves without invoking names of party leaders," Muluka said. "Wanjiru is not a political heavyweight at all. In 2007, she rode on ODM's tidal wave and beat Maina Kamanda to clinch the Starehe parliamentary seat," he said. Muluka said Luhyas, Luos and Kalenjins united to vote for Wanjiru in their support for now ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Cord leader Raila Odinga and DP William Ruto who were top ODM leaders at that time. "There was competition among the Kikuyu community with those from Muranga, Nyeri and other areas claiming their counterparts from Kiambu had led them for long and wanted a change of leadership," he said. Read: Wanjiru 'confident' of Jubilee nomination for Nairobi governor race "Failure to agree on a single candidate cost them the seat as their votes were scattered and Maina Kamanda lost," Muluka added.For his part, Andati said Sonko has an upper hand in the City politics, being an elected senator. "Sonko has been around for quite some time. He has a way of canvassing majority voters in Nairobi. People connect with him easily because he is accessible," Andati said. "He has a political support across all the ethnic groups and political divides," he added, further noting that Sakaja and Waweru are more polished for Nairobi and Kenyan politics. Waweru has taken a low profile in the last one month and did not show up for the JP rally at Mlango Kubwa in Mathare constituency, Nairobi.It was here that his counterparts declared to support any of them who will win the nominations.Read: PICK to name Harun Mwau Nairobi governor aspirant More on this: Two camps emerge, rift widens in Jubilee city governor's race