The opposition s propaganda engines have for some years now sold a false narrative of cataclysmic events waiting to befall the Jubilee government. The 2013 election campaign was peppered with claims that a presidential candidate from Central was unelectable and in the event of such an unlikely outcome, such candidate and his running mate would be ferried away to face criminal charges and serve a long jail term, courtesy of the International Criminal Court. The doomsayers went further to surmise that Kenya would become an international pariah and would never again be invited to the table of civilised nations. Predictions were to the effect that the economy would collapse, unemployment was expected to spiral and no new projects would be initiated.As we head towards the final stretch of the Jubilee government s first term, none of the events predicted by ODM-Cord has come to pass. Indeed, Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto were elected, the ICC withdrew the charges against them, the economy is growing in leaps and bounds and Kenya is one of the most sought-after destinations by foreign leaders Barack Obama, Pope Francis, David Cameron (due before Brexit), Benjamin Netanyahu, and Narendra Modi (expected) and a host of others. Our President has been invited to so many countries that he is unable to fit them all on his itinerary. The government has also initiated several mega projects currently ongoing and will create employment for hundreds of thousands Kenyans.Cord plotted to bring down the Jubilee government through carefully orchestrated propaganda and sowed seeds of discord and fear. But Jubilee opted to concentrate on development projects in infrastructure, health, education, power generation, water and other sectors that are now beginning to bear fruit. They are bound to pay dividends in the 2017 general election.Jubilee, to the consternation of its opponents, remains firmly united, while ODM-Cord totters along like a three-headed hydra. Fissures are beginning to emerge from the Ababu Namwamba camp, whilst Wiper and Ford Kenya are waiting for the presidential nomination, which, if bungled, could spell the break-up of the coalition. Cord is in panic as Jubilee makes inroads in former opposition zones including Coast, Northeastern, Lower Eastern, Kisii and parts of Western. To counter this, Cord has hatched a plot to place a wedge between Jubilee leaders by insinuating Gema won t support Ruto in 2022. It is a simplistic juvenile plot which is an insult to the intelligence. Why would Uhuru plan to jettison Ruto before re-election 2017? Would he not be sabotaging his own election? If they win together, Ruto remains DP and is the substantive candidate for 2022. The first murmur came from Kiambu Governor William Kabogo (who has since withdrawn the claim) and more recently nominated Senator Paul Njoroge, believed to be an opposition proxy. The other aim of this mischief is to create fear and mistrust between the Kikuyu and Kalenjin communities in the volatile Rift Valley. It is important that Kenyans interrogate and dissect these pronouncements by charlatans and reject their fantasies.