The old approach to business development was presumptive. The entrepreneur would get a great idea, source for funds and present customers with the amazing surprise hoping they would like it. If they didn t, the entrepreneur was in trouble. Meanwhile, money, time and other resources have been spent. This was the usual story. It s different now. This is the new way: create a basic functional, even incomplete representation of your product or idea (on a budget) so that customers have a good understanding of your offer and quickly go to market. This eliminates the old long ideation process and downplays perfection. The idea is to present the major benefits or features of your idea to your customers quickly. This debunks the myth that entrepreneurs have to get it right the first time. Most don t. The plan is to trigger an inexpensive learning process that ensures the long-term success of the startup. You want to confirm that your product is something customers really want. In my experience, this new approach is difficult for many entrepreneurs to accept. The reality is that many business leaders are stuck in old, irrelevant, unprofitable business practices. There s a general impatience when it comes to this kind of product development process. Some entrepreneurs think it s tedious and would rather gamble with their resources. Instead of wishing on a star, why not get the customers involved in the product development process? In this process, the entrepreneur listens. You watch out for customer reaction and comments. What do customers think? How do they feel about your product? What s working or not? How can you make improvements? What s the impact of your product on the market? Based on this learning process, the entrepreneur is informed on the changes to make, effects the changes and sends the product back to the market. All the while measuring impact and gathering data. This is an active back and forth (repeated) exchange between the entrepreneur and the customers. It eliminates the guess work or wild assumptions as to what the customers really want or need. The customers give you real time feedback. I m an advocate of rapid learning at the startup stage. There s nothing wrong with making incremental improvements as you learn more about what the customers want. Now, due to the rapid changes in the market, the entrepreneur who learns quickest wins. So it s in your interest to set up systems for quick learning. The quicker you learn, the better your chances. Twitter: @SamuelMpamugo