Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has dismissed Ukambani MPs who defected to the Jubilee Party.This comes as the MPs promised to work with President Uhuru Kenyatta and support the Jubilee administration to ensure they deliver the Ukambani votes. Those MPs, who have joined Jubilee have just fast-tracked themselves out of Parliament and into political oblivion. Their departure is good riddance, Kalonzo .He said their defection is not a loss to the party.Kalonzo said the MPs were to be dewhipped as they left the party a long time ago. He equated their walkout to a scenario of choosing between the box and the money.Kalonzo said most of the MPs sensed defeat in their respective constituencies and had opted to snatch something and run away as a solace for their expected loss next year.He said the MPs had moved to the Jubilee Party individually, whereas residents in their constituencies are firmly in support of Wiper. If you want to know or test if it is a win or loss, can those who claim to have decamped give up our ticket and face the voters on their preferred party, he said. It s immoral for anybody whose party didn t fold up and join the Jubilee Party to say he is part of Jubilee, while he hasn t given up the ticket that took him to Parliament, he said.Asked whether they [Wiper] plan to take disciplinary action against the errant MPs, Kalonzo termed it a waste of time .He said the voters will punish those who fail to toe the party line. They don t believe nor understand political philosophy that brought them to Parliament. They are alone and not with the people, Kalonzo said.MPs Regina Ndambuki (Kilome), Joe Mutambu (Mwingi Central), Munuve Mati (Mwingi North), Michael Munyao (Mbooni) are among those who defected from Wiper to Jubilee.Kalonzo spoke when he met and made a cash donation to John Horsfall, a Briton who is running from Mt Elgon to Kilifi to raise funds for the Lewa Children s Home. It is the first time Kalonzo will be fighting to consolidate Kamba support outside government. Analysts say this will not be easy.