Kenyan actress and Oscar winner Lupita Nyong'o has invited her fans into the family's Kisumu home to watch her cook ugali. This idea came about after the Queen Of Katwe star was interviewed on NTV's the Trend and she admitted that she did not know how to cook Kenya's staple food. Kenyans on twitter went ham on her. Now, she is back to prove that she can indeed cook ugali.Accompanied by Vogue, Lupita was filmed walking around the dad's - Professor Anyang Nyong'o - shamba looking for maperas (guavas). This is followed by an instructional segment, where, Dorothy Nyong'o shows Lupita how to cook ugali. Pour it in not so fast, not so slow, Dorothy tells her as she carefully adds water. This is like an abdominal workout; this is no joke, the actress exclaims while stirring the pot.Lupita successfully cooks a very small ugali that the dad brands, "very nice". He even asked for a second serving.Watch the video below.Various fans who watched the video gave their views."Beautiful home - glad you learned. Learn all you can about home remedies also. My grandmother's are gone and I should have written many things down," wrote one fan, "An African lady who embrace her African heritage!! Awesome and refreshing!!"Another added, "Nice! You did it! I still make bad ugali. Lol. But im good at chapos."After watching the video one dude was shocked, he wrote, "Wow! I thought this girl was joking when she said she couldn't make ugali...oh well at least she learned how to do it."One Kenyan chided, "Omg she climbed a tree. And shook it yes I can definitely relate."Another fan from Sudan wrote, "Yum! We Sudanese love Ugali which is very similar to our Asida. Love my neighbor countries and their food!!"A die hard adoring fan was so impressed they wrote, "God... I think I'm in love with this woman even more than I thought was possible. Goddess through and through."Lupita is the cover model for the October issue of Vogue where she talks about race issues and creating opportunities for people of colour.