Interviews for the next Chief Justice commenced on 29th August with Justice Alnashir Visram. JSC has interviewed twelve candidates. The last candidate, Justice Jackton Ojwang was interviewed on 15th September. That marks the end of the interview process. It has been a rigorous informative exercise. The public has been educated on the ideal qualities of a Chief Justice. What JSC is looking for in a Chief Justice is not complex or novel.The Chief Justice is Head of Judiciary and Chairperson of JSC. He is President of Supreme Court. He is the link between the Judiciary and other arms of the Government. A Chief Justice must be man or woman with high moral character, integrity and impartiality.These are the basic constitutional requirements. Moral character is a subjective requirement. It will be immoral in Kenya for a Chief Justice to publicly advocate for same sex marriages or gay relationships but not so in some other parts of the world. An individual with personal weaknesses such as dishonesty or alcoholism does not meet the moral character test. So too, one with dubious associations, a history of financial impropriety or bad disciplinary record. These are just but illustrative guidelines. Integrity is tested on several factors.A Chief Justice must have a consistent history of honesty and high moral character in professional life. Respect for professional duties, arising under the codes of professional and judicial conduct is key. One must have the ability to know the need to maintain propriety and manifest the appearance of propriety. It is only then that a Chief Justice will ensure that justice is not only done, but seen to have been done. However, one need not be without blemish. A controversy that is capable of logical, sensible and reasonable explanation should not lock one out. What is in the interest of the public for purposes of integrity need not be that which interests the public for fun or debate. Impartiality is tested on several yardsticks.Fairness, demonstrated by neutrality in the delivery of just decisions is fundamental. A Chief Justice must be open-minded and proficient in deciding issues in accordance with the law. The law should not conflict with personal views. Good judgement, general public knowledge, common sense and sound balance of mind are ingredients of practical and prompt decisions. The Chief Justice must be one that will lead the Judiciary justly and in accordance with the law.There are many other virtues that a Chief Justice must possess. Intellectual capacity, legal judgement, diligence, legal know how as opposed to know who, organizational and administrative skills as well as ability to work with a variety of people will demonstrate professional competence. A Chief Justice must be an accomplished writer and orator, to effectively communicate. Legal as well as life experiences and commitment to public and community services are factors necessary in a Chief Justice. The rigorous public recruitment undertaken by JSC, whose Commissioners have a variety of professional experiences, is intended to interrogate, tap and collect these virtues.There has been a mixed public reaction on whether the interviews for Chief Justice should have been in public. It has been felt that the exercise was humiliating, with candidates demonstrating ignorance on basic legal principles. For sitting Judges, such embarrassment could demean them before Advocates and litigants. Public confidence in the Judges ability to serve could dwindle. On the other hand, the real character, competence and incompetence of some of the candidates played out in the open. The ineptness of certain candidates was evident. JSC, the candidates and the public had, and for now, have no say on the issue of publicity. The law requires that the interviews be in public.Publicity is the hallmark of judicial fidelity. It starts with the recruitment of the Chief Justice. Publicity underscores the vesting of judicial authority in the people. The people are therefore, rightfully entitled to see how their Chief Justice is recruited. It is only through public recruitment that the people may know which candidate does not have any idea whatsoever over the powers of the President over his Deputy or the role of the Supreme Court on the issue.A candidate without the mastery of the Constitution, the procedure for a Presidential Election Petition and general public knowledge will have a lot of reading to do, as Chief Justice. The exercise has enabled the public see which candidate will put the Constitution first and not his personal belief or faith, noting that Kenya is a secular state. The public now knows which candidate will advocate for gay rights, matters that do not sit well with the family and the basic foundation of the Kenyan society. It has also been shown which candidate will go to great lengths to conceal his past failed leadership in the fight against corruption and beguile the public with big words in order to appear most suitable. The public was left wondering how a candidate who feigned ignorance of rampant corruption and impunity in the judiciary will deal with those issues if appointed Chief Justice.Those candidates who cannot communicate or handle issues under fire with tact, came out. Candidates who only excelled in leadership on account of efforts of others, or on account of constitutional moments not of their own making, were seen. The role of interest groups in the recruitment of Chief Justice did not escape the public s eye. Intense lobbying commenced on announcement of the vacancy. Candidates were advised by their principals to apply. Some were pushed and profiled as suitable in advance. It is no wonder then, that when only six were shortlisted, Court action was resorted to, to ensure that all fourteen applicants were shortlisted. The Court process only intended a few to pass through the sieve twice. The rest were mere joyriders. The JSC is least likely to give a favourable consideration to candidates whose applications had been rejected. Their inclusion for interviews must have been intended to avoid more trouble with the law. It was meant to expedite the recruitment process. This has cost tax payers tens of millions on account of sitting allowances for the extended interviews and delay in the recruitment of Chief Justice. JSC should be more cautious in future recruitments, including those of Deputy Chief Justice and a Judge of the Supreme Court.For now, when the chips are down, the real contenders for Chief Justice will be four. Senior Counsel Nzamba Kitonga and Supreme Court Judge Smokin Wanjala faired on well. They demonstrated profound knowledge in law and accumulated years of civil society service. Either of them would continue the legacy of retired Chief Justice Willy Mutunga if appointed Chief Justice. Kitonga, Wanjala and Mutunga share many things in common. They all were in the trenches of the civil society s fight for change. It should not be a big surprise if one of them is nominated Chief Justice. On the other hand, Court of Appeal Judges David Maraga and Alnashir Visram appeared to be the two candidates who could deliver the judiciary to levels beyond the perceived normalcy that punctuated Mutunga s legacy.The two have vast experience on the bench and in the bar. Their contribution to community service outside legal matters is unparalleled. Vishram demonstrated in public, his knowledge of the cartels that undermine the administration of justice and gave his commitment to dismantle them. Maraga came out as an accomplished legal and religious elder, with unwavering commitment to his belief and the need to be just. These two Judges are seasoned hands in public administration. The appointment of either of them will break the hold of the civil society on the judiciary. The civil society is said to be infiltrated by individuals whose main agenda is to control several arms of the Government through the judiciary. Mutunga s lamentations on how those individuals operate a cartel in the judiciary should not fall on deaf ears.A break away from the hold of the cartel could be a breath of fresh air to the general public and the administration. With the conclusion of the interviews, JSC is required to deliberate and nominate the most qualified applicant for Chief Justice. The nomination must be done within seven days from the date of conclusion of interviews being 15th September. It is at this point that JSC is mandated to take into account gender, regional, ethnic and other diversities of the people in Kenya. This is where the balancing will take place. The most academically qualified, experienced or otherwise suitable candidate may be axed on account of gender, regional and ethnic considerations. All eyes are now on JSC to deliver a Chief Justice. There will be a delicate harmonizing exercise to look forward to. Seven days to go and the next chief justice shall be here. The JSC should thereafter commence the recruitment of Deputy Chief Justice and a Judge of the Supreme Court in earnest.