A coterie of advisers to opposition chief Raila Odinga are unhappy with ODM's handling of Cord's crisis of discord, following claims Wiper initially endorsed the coalition's 2013 line-up.Think tanks have also expressed concern leaders' public endorsement of Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho as Raila's 2017 running mate is rash and populist. Helpful to Joho, but not Raila.At a mammoth rally on Sunday in Kisumu, Governor Jack Ranguma, MP John Mbadi (Suba), Senator Anyang' Nyong'o and woman representative Aisha Jumwa (Kilifi) said Joho would be the perfect running mate. Others have picked up the call for the Coast strongman to join Raila.Raila has been silent. Some MPs making these reckless remarks are doing it for their selfish interests, not because they want to see Raila become President, one adviser told the Star.The Joho ticket statement is political fodder for Jubilee sympathisers in Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka's Ukambani backyard. They want to split the coalition and say those comments show Raila will ditch the former Vice President. We [Kamba's] have been cheated, Mbooni MP Kisoi Munyao, a defector to Jubilee, told a meeting on Tuesday attended by Deputy President William Ruto. They have now taken Joho to be the second-in-command. I want to tell ODM, your game plan has come a cropper."In a surprising development, even Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana, a Kalonzo ally, suggested the Kamba community should now negotiate with Jubilee.There are claims Wiper's top decision making organ, the summit, had secretly agreed to back the Cord 2013 line-up Raila for President, Cord co-principal Kalonzo as running mate and Cord co-principal Moses Wetangu'la (Ford Kenya) as Senate majority leader.But in Mombasa, Wiper appeared to rule out any possibility of Kalonzo missing the big ticket and demanded Cord name its flagbearer by December 25. The plan is to name the ticket in January.Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar, Wiper secretary general, recalled the acrimonious fallout between Kalonzo and the Jubilee duo Uhuru and Ruto in 2012 and emphasized the thorny issue of presidential flagbearer must be sorted out soon.Some Raila advisers are concerned over what appear to be personal attacks on Wetang'ula by a senior ODM blogger.On Tuesday, Wetangu'la protested against a Facebook post by ODM director of communication Philip Etale who termed the Senator's remarks about Raila immature . On Sunday Wetang'ula again publicly urged Raila to retire and back him for President. He compared Raila, aged 71, to a sterile man unable to make his wife pregnant, referring to his three failed presidential bids. Urging Raila to retire from politics by someone calling himself a Cord co-principal is itself a sign of cowardice and immaturity in politics, Etale said in an emotional Facebook post that has been removed. He is our elder. We are not disrespecting him," Wetang'ula said of Raila. "We are telling him, Please, Elder, now you have worked. You have your respect. You will have a special place in the Cord government. But be the kingmaker." But yesterday, Butere MP Andrew Toboso shot back, saying nothing is more reckless than saying Raila is too old to be President. It's more reckless for them to say Raila is old and because he has tried this thing without success, he needs to leave it to them. I find that more reckless, the MP told the Star. What we are doing as ODM is to ensure we remain a strong party. And we need that strong party because if we don't, Jubilee will overrun this country."The think tanks have warned ODM must stop creating loopholes for any affiliate party to exit. It's only through Cord, perhaps bringing on board more partners, that can deliver a Raila presidency. Joho himself missed many Okoa Kenya campaigns. The governor only re-surfaced in the Malindi by-election. So why should we allow his strong re-emergence to rock the boat? asked a senior ODM insider.Joho, a rising star, has electrified ODM and unsettled the coalition in a renewed vigorous campaign to unseat President Uhuru Kenyatta. Joho is a leader of Raila's campaign team.At an ODM rally in Kisumu, several leaders suggested he should deputise Raila in 2017. You have seen what Joho has done over the last couple of months that fits that bill [of being running mate], Senator Nyong'o said.During the Wiper rally in Tononoka, Kalonzo warned leaders to watch their tongue, sentiments shared by Bondo MP Gideon Ochanda. It is true the timing of some utterances needs to be checked because the political heat is rising, so if you don't check what you say, it might cause the coalition difficulty when it comes to negotiations, the Bondo lawmaker said. He defended ODM, however, saying the Joho endorsement was only within the Orange Party and does not extend to the coalition.Various leaders warn the three co-principals will give Jubilee an easy win if the coalition disintegrates before 2017. We are trying to ensure the coalition stands. Because if it doesn't, then they would have given Jubilee an early Christmas, Ford Kenya Secretary General Eseli Simiyu said.But Busia woman representatives said Joho is not a threat, he is laying the ground for his own run for President in 2022. Raila has to ensure he gets a DP who will bring him a lot of votes.. People love Governor Joho but he is preparing his ground for 2022 and not 2017, she told the Star.Without Kalonzo, Raila will lose the lower Eastern vote consisting of Kitui, Machakos and Makueni counties. The regions with almost one million voters would be critical in 2017.