One of the quotes favoured by African political analysts, is from Chinua Achebe s Things Fall Apart: 'A toad does not run in the daytime for nothing'It applies with particular relevance to the Deputy President William Ruto, at this point in his career, as he spends virtually every weekend in some corner or other of the country, struggling to persuade the leaders and the people of that region to join the proposed, amalgamated, Jubilee Party.The project here is to have one party on whose ticket he will be President Uhuru Kenyatta s running mate in 2013; and subsequently be the presidential nominee in 2022. His own URP and Uhuru s TNA are to be the first political parties absorbed into the Jubilee party; and then many other smaller parties are to follow.And the question which arises here is this: Why bother? Why take all that trouble and go into all that effort, when Kenyan political history in the multiparty era, shows clearly that the surest path to success is to be absolutely flexible in your choice of the party on whose ticket you will run for the presidency?Indeed it is only the retired president Daniel Moi, who benefitted from being at the head of a strong political party with firm roots all over the country. But this was the independence party , Kanu, and even then, Moi never got more than 40% of presidential votes cast: he only won because he faced a deeply divided opposition. But Moi aside, it has been clear for decades now that our presidential elections are all about personalities, and the regional voting blocs that these leading political figures have assembled on their side.The National Rainbow Coalition party on which retired president Mwai Kibaki won in 2002, as Daniel Moi s final term came to an end, was barely six months old at the time of the 2002 election. Before that, Kibaki had twice run on a Democratic Party (DP) and lost. In 2007, Kibaki successfully ran for reelection on a completely different ticket - the PNU.And the party on which Uhuru won in 2013, TNA, was also barely six months old at the time of the election.Ruto himself has also changed political parties quite a few times. So why this obsession with a single all-powerful party which will subsequently field a series of pre-determined, presidential candidates over the next 20 or so years?Well, if you know the thinking of political leaders at the very top, this obsession comes as no surprise. Indeed it could be argued to be the indispensable factor in forming really strong, long-term regional alliances. In essence, it arises from an envy of the all-powerful political parties to be found in Tanzania (CCM) and South Africa (ANC).Kenya has had four presidents since independence; Tanzania has had five; and South Africa has had four presidents since majority rule was introduced in 1994.But here is the thing: a man aspiring to be president of Kenya, depends mostly on himself and his friends and supporters; while in South Africa and Tanzania, the only thing that matters is the support of your party.Jacob Zuma, the current president of South Africa got to the top by serving his time within the ANC, and finding a way to rally the top brass of that party behind him. In much the same way, John Magafuli, the Tanzanian president only had to engage in grassroots campaigns after he had won the CCM nomination for the presidency a purely party decision.Thereafter, the sweeping up of the votes needed to ascend to the presidency was just a formality for both men. So if you are the number two man in any political coalition of the kind we have in Kenya, it is understandable that you will want to have this coalition recreated as a single powerful party in which you are, again, the number two man. For then, you can be sure that your time will come to succeeded the president.Whereas if you have your own party, and the president has his own too, then you may well have an unpleasant surprise ahead of you, once the president retires.