Everton Vs Arsenal Today 3:45pmMy Prediction: The Toffees 1-3 The GunnersEverton shocked a few people when they beat Chelsea 2-0 last weekend to advance to the semi finals of the FA Cup. They were confident, precise and clearly deserved that victory. But beating the Blues no longer holds the water it once did. Everyone and their sister can beat Chelsea nowadays. But given the recent form that Arsenal has displayed, as a Gunner, I am worried. Arsenal s last couple of weeks reads like this; two losses to Barcelona, a loss to Man United, Swansea, Watford and a draw with Spurs. Oh somewhere in the middle there we beat lowly Hull but tragic results if you ask me; and we have every reason to be worried. Right now Arsenal are chasing second position after Leicester created a gap too wide to close. Our best bet is overtaking Spurs and it can be done. But we need to recollect our thoughts and refocus on the job at hand. We have the players to beat any team but we need to focus! We do have a striking problem but as long as we aren t playing Barcelona; we can score many goals!Chelsea Vs West Ham Today 6pmMy prediction: The Blues 0-2 The HammersChelsea are in trouble. They are struggling to get anything done this season. They are out of all competitions except the league; because it s a league but they cannot even qualify for Europa next season. To add insult to injury, their star player Diego Costa was red carded against Everton last weekend and FA reds cross into the league. So a depleted Blues side will face a West Ham team that nearly; and may still kick Manchester United out of the FA Cup. The Hammers gave the Red Devils such a hard time on Sunday and if they had just held on for ten more minutes United would be out of the FA Cup just like Chelsea and Arsenal. But the game will go into replay. West Ham are deservedly fifth in the league compared to Chelsea s 10th deservedly. And the Blues are going no-where without their temperamental but talented striker.Southampton Vs Liverpool Sunday 4:30pmMy Prediction: The Saints 1-3 The RedsSouthampton and Liverpool have been neck and neck for most of the season and once again they find themselves equal on points as they face one another. Forty four points with Southampton a point ahead but Liverpool kind of have the upper hand as they have two games in hand. Liverpool have lost three of their last ten league games while Southampton have lost two; but in recent weeks, the Reds have been the stronger side. Liverpool have also had tough outings against Manchester City and Man United of late; although I m not sure Man United was tough for them. They are doing really well given the quality of games they are playing. Phillippe Coutinho is on fire and I m afraid I don t give Southampton much of a chance here.Manchester City Vs Manchester United Sunday 7pmMy Prediction: The Citizens 2-1 The Red DevilsI m not sure whether I m looking forward to this game because I really don t like to watch anyone suffer; even if they aren t my friends. Man United lost to West Brom in the league then drew with both West Ham in the FA Cup and Liverpool in Europa; seeing them exit out of Europe. They aren t looking good and LVG is clearly guessing his next moves. City aren t too different though. Even though they are through to the quarter finals of the Champions League for their first time in history; they struggled to actually score against Dynamo Kiev at the Etihad. Luckily they had played well away but it seems the pressure at home was just too much. Again we always analyse derbies with the same focus; anything can happen. So predictions are based on feelings and I feel the Blue side of Manchester will emerge victorious!