Runners who missed the registration deadline for the Standard Chartered Nairobi Marathon 2016 have been given a second chance after the Bank announced a one week re-opening for online registration. In a statement Standard Chartered announced that the online registration will be re-opened today to Sunday October16.The event which will be marking its 14th anniversary is slated for October 30.Chairman of the Local Organising CommitteePeter Gitau said thy have received numerous request from participants who wanted to take part in the marathon."We have been receiving numerous requests since we closed registration last month. Granted that proceeds from the event go towards the Seeing is Believing charity kitty, we are giving Kenyans a second opportunity. Upon the expiry of this period, we shall not accept any further registration, said Gitau.In a departure from traditional, registration for this year s edition was launched four months before the event in a move aimed at complying with international standards. This has given us enough time to sort out the requisite logistics. We even started issuing running kits this week at our branches. For those unable to collect their kit this week, we shall open a central collection point from October 15, 2016 at Nyayo National Stadium, Gitau said. Upon registration, participants will be entered into a final draw to select the eight lucky winners who will proceed to a fully paid trip to Singapore in December this year to attend the Singapore Marathon. So far about 20,000 participants have registered.More than Sh8 million prize money will be up for grabs in the only IAAF-sanctioned race in the region.This year the Bank has invested about Sh90 million towards sponsorship of the event while another Sh80 million worth of sponsorship will be provided in kind by partners. The route for all the six race categories remains unchanged. All registrations this year, individual and corporates are being done online via www.sc.com/ke/Nairobimarathon at a fee of Sh2,000.