Norwich Vs Man United, Today 2:45pm, My Prediction: Canaries 1 Red Devils...2Imagine the league isn t over yet even though the champions are already known and the last team is clear. Congratulations once again to Leicester but there is still a battle going on. These two teams are both fighting for survival; but in different ways. Norwich needs to survive relegation while Man United needs to survive Thursday night football. While Norwich looks pretty doomed; Man United will be thanking Arsenal for beating Man City tomorrow. United are the stronger team here even though they failed to beat Leicester last weekend at Old Trafford. Their small boys just couldn t cross the hurdle to get the three points; but I must admit that I admire them greatly. Even though Norwich will be fighting hard to at least get a draw; I trust the desire for 4th position will be greater. At this point of the season, it s no longer about who is in or out; but whose desire is stronger. I can t believe I m doing this but I believe in a Red Devils win here. The problem is they ll dig their own grave and draw with West Ham on Monday.Tottenham Vs Southampton, Tomorrow 3:30pmMy Prediction: Spurs....2 Saints....2I am only reviewing this game because Arsenal can still scare Spurs; although Tottenham s goal difference is in their favour. Spurs can be stopped as we saw against Chelsea on Monday; and stopped in the most embarrassing way. I thought a shot at the title would be enough for them to do everything necessary to defend a two goal lead; but I guess I was wrong. The Southampton team that played against Man City last week looked possessed. Possessed with a desire for victory; and they got it in style. You may argue that it was a weakened City side but it was a Premier League fixture. The Saints have the talent and now that Spurs have little to fight for; I actually see Southampton walking away with at least a point; afterall they can still book a spot in Europa! Man City Vs Arsenal, Tomorrow 6pmMy Prediction: Citizens..1 Gunners...2If the two Man City performances over the past week is anything to go by, then I should just hand the Gunners the three points. City were rubbish against the Saints and uninspiring against Real Madrid. Even though Yaya Toure is one of my favourite players in the world; he didn t live up to his billing. And after captain Vincent Kompany was forced off due to yet another injury; the team lacked organization. And they ll still lack that organization tomorrow at the Etihad. On any given day, the Citizens can beat the Gunners; but Arsenal want to; and always do finish the season on a high. It s the one thing we have mastered finishing the season on a high particularly when there s nothing but a Champions League spot to fight for. This is our game for sure but does it really matter? NKT!