Wiper has warned ODM in the Cord coalition to stop making threats that they can go it alone in the election.Last week, opposition chief Raila Odinga asked ODM leaders to popularise the party.He said they are ready to go it alone in the elections without Wiper and Ford Kenya.Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, chairman David Musila, Hassan Omar (secretary general) and Nyali MP Hezron Awiti said ODM should stop chest-thumping.They spoke during a rally at Tononoka Grounds in Mombasa yesterday.The leaders said ODM should not under-rate Wiper s popularity and clout.Kalonzo said, We are ready to work with anyone who is ready to assure us we will clinch the presidency next year. If Raila can assure us that we will be together, then we can work together. He said ODM should come to a round-table meeting to discuss Cord s future. Musila said, In Wiper we are afraid of what ODM has been doing. They have been chest-thumping that they have muscles to go it alone. He said Wiper has other options other than Cord. Omar said Wiper is ready to work with other coalition members, but ODM has threatened them. They [ODM] were the first to fire the bullet. We will not be cowed, because we believe in ourselves, said Omar.The Wiper leaders said they will in six weeks declare Kalonzo as their Presidential flag bearer.In a statement titled The Tononoka Declaration, Wiper said it will hold its National Delegates Conference to formally endorse Kalonzo s candidature.The statement read by Omar said Cord, as a coaltion, has until December 25 to name its flag bearer. In pursuing coalition s preparedness for the 2017, Wiper is resolute the Cord flag bearer must be named before December 25, Omar said.Other leaders present were Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama, Kibwezi MP Jessica Mbalu, Lamu woman representative Shakila Abdalla and Jomvu MP Badi Twalib.Meanwhile, despite mounting pressure, widening fissures and a ticking clock, Cord has decided not to reveal its presidential candidate until January seven months to the election.This delay is intended to ensure he will be not over-exposed and savaged by the Jubilee Party political machine and to prevent growing internal rifts in the coalition where all three co-principals want to be President.