A recent service delivery indicator report by the World Bank revealed that teacher quality in our schools is pathetic. Over 60 percent of teachers, in public and private schools, don t have the minimum content knowledge required to teach basic reading, writing and math at standard 4 level.Similarly, a study conducted by the African Population and Health Research Center in 2009 revealed that teachers scored an average of 47 percent in a standardized primary 6 math test, with the lowest scoring 17 percent. The cover story in this week s Economist magazine is about teachers and learning, how to make a good teacher.The Economist reports research by Stanford University economist Erick Hanushek, which shows that students taught by highly effective teachers learn 15 years worth of material in one academic year. Conversely, students taught by poor, ineffective teachers learn only half a years worth in one academic year. A good teacher is like having a drink with a whip smart friend, you feel inspired, educated and challenged. You learn and you grow. Think about a conversation with an obtuse dim-witted person; its exhausting, depressing and a waste of precious and irredeemable time.Uwezo, an education advocacy organization, has shown consistently over the last four years that the quantity and quality of learning in our schools is deplorable. The bad news is that despite recent interventions by the government have failed to yield tangible improvements. Nearly 30 percent of children who complete grade eight cannot read or write or do math at the level of a child in grade four.Old-fashioned, mainstream pseudo scholars in education swear that the solution to the deplorable state of learning in our schools, public and private, is the curriculum unwieldy and irrelevant. They also argue that our classes are outsized, thanks to free primary education. Some of these scholars have also argued that our public schools lack basic facilities such as classrooms. Some have even argued that our teachers are undervalued, underpaid and would inevitably be bad teachers.More recently, with significant investment from the government, we somehow think that curriculum review, with a change of the structure of learning from 8-4-4 to 2-6-3-3-3 and with the introduction of tablets will solve, once and for all, the problem of poor learning outcomes. We finally nailed it, bingo, all it takes in a tablet and a new curriculum.The cover story in The Economist reaffirms what I have said in this column for the last four years: it is the teacher, stupid! As The Economist notes from research in many countries, the secret to great grades and meaningful learning is a good teacher.Our children will not learn until we upgrade in-service teachers and train excellent new teachers. Teacher training colleges need a total overhaul. Our universities should cut out outdated useless courses on meaning and theory of education. The focus on preparing teachers must be a robust blend of subject matter content and the complex and beautiful craft of teaching. Dr. Awiti is the director of the East African Institute at Aga Khan University