If Kenyans are food secure, it means that everyone in the country can access safe and healthy food of their choice, in quantities of their choice whenever they are hungry either because they bought food or because they produced food themselves. This is far from being the current situation. Out of a population of 47 million people, more than 10 million people suffer from chronic food insecurity and poor nutrition, this is according to the Kenya National Food and Nutrition Security Policy, 2011. It is estimated that between two and four million people depend on emergency food aid at any given time. ). Nearly 30% of Kenya s children are classified as undernourished. Kenya is ranked 83rd out of 113 countries on the Global Food Security Index 2016. Why then, is the Government of Kenya claiming we are food secure, if we clearly aren t? The elephant in the room -that was dutifully silent during the State House Summit should trumpet out loud to say that it s a game of politics. If the Government its policies and practice have delivered food security to Kenya, then it means they have changed a long-standing feature of the country s history in a significant way. In an election year, this is a powerful narrative, particularly if it eases winning an election. There are two stories being told about food security. One story says we are food secure and the other says we are not. The stories are being told and written by various people with different intentions. There are those who weave dreams, where fiction reigns and happy endings preside. Then there are those who tell it like it is. The discussion at the recent Gender Forum hosted by Heinrich B ll Stiftung is an example of the counter-narrative to the assertion that Kenya is food secure. The gender dimension of food security being the theme, it was evident that much still needs to be done before we can claim that everyone has access to food and that adequate food is available to everyone. Several aspects of the food value chain were addressed. To name a few, structural issues such as limited transport infrastructure and market access, exacerbated by poor post-harvest storage facilities, lead to high levels of food waste or low selling prices to brokers. For poor farmers, this means food for subsistence can be unfit for consumption or limited in terms of nutritional value, and the opportunity for earning a profit from the sale of produce is undermined. The unique challenges faced by women in agriculture, particularly limitations in land ownership due to cultural practices and insufficient access to credit were also explored as well as the place of research and innovation in solving perennial challenges in the sector. It was clear from the conversation that the solution to food security is not only about increasing the production of food, but also addressing how food is distributed throughout the country. It is difficult to make sense of a situation when we are exposed to different stories being narrated by people we should trust. You may ask yourself, who am I to question Kenya s leaders? At the same time you might find yourself wondering why you should disbelieve stories about manipulative cartels, poor farmers being exploited or children going hungry. It is important to be aware that there can be a gap between the stories we are told and the stories that are true. This may seem obvious, but it is powerful. Awareness gives us the opportunity to scrutinise what s being said. And if we are able to think critically, it empowers us to make up our own minds about the truth. Layla Liebetrau is Project Coordinator of The Human Right to Food Initiative