The Ministry of Energy and Petroleum says it will not rush the auction of the 17 new oil exploration blocks it created recently despite rising interest from investors. Principal secretary for Petroleum Andrew Kamau says the blocks will in future only be sold at the right price and to the right investor. Unfortunately, what we are seeing in a low-priced environment is people come, they get blocks for their own reasons and we don't get the data that we want, Kamau said. We are not in any rush to give out any blocks because it does not meet our strategic intent as a country at the moment. Interest in Kenya's oil block has been on the rise since February 2012 when British explorer Tullow Oil and its then equal partner African Oil of Canada struck oil in block 10BB in Lokichar Basin, south of Turkana county. Africa Oil has since farmed out half of its stake in oil-rich blocks 10B and 13T to Danish business conglomerate Maersk. The Lokichar Basin has recoverable reserves in the upwards of 750 million barrels. It is not a must that we give out blocks, we don't have to. The reason is because we would like to get more and more data, Kamau said. We would also like companies that get these blocks to do some work, pay some fees ... and give us some data. The cost of the blocks depends on the level of exploration, including the data available and wells sunk. The creation of new blocks brings the country's tally to 63 blocks for exploration. Civil society groups Oxfam Kenya and Kenya Civil Society Platform on Oil and Gas in April called for an audit of 27 multinationals with stakes in Kenya s 41 petroleum blocks. They claimed about 20 of the firms own the blocks through subsidiaries in tax-haven or low-tax jurisdictions, a threat to future revenues from the nascent industry through tax avoidance. What happens is that the subsidiaries in the tax havens are used as vehicles to transfer costs to Kenya or to shift revenues from Kenya, KCSPOG coordinator Charles Wanguhu said at a briefing on April 1. Exploration firms have over the last one year or so frozen or slowed down their operations due to a sharp drop in crude oil prices from about $100 per barrel (about 49 litres) in mid-2014 to about $51.89 for Brent crude oil yesterday. When we get people who want price that we want them to contract at, we will give them licences, Kamau said. But we are not in charity business to give them away. 