Rebecca Kamau and Issa Abdalla have withdrawn from the Kenyan team that will take part in the African senior championship, their parents have confirmed. The swimming championship will be held in South Africa next month.The two UK-based swimmers will focus on the world swimming championship set for Canada.Speaking from UK, Rebecca s father Kiruri Kamau said the Kenya Swimming Federation has taken long to name the team that will travel to South Africa making it hard for them to prepare. She will not (participate). We have not received an invitation from KSF and yet there are only about three weeks left to the championship," he said."It would be too complicated especially because of self-funding; we needed more time to get the funds to send her there. She also cannot afford to take a month out of school if she will also have to go to the World Short Course early in December in Canada. She is preparing for her A-levels."KSF had initially selected a team of 24 swimmers - 12 women and 12 men who were to represent Kenya in the championship. But after last week s court ruling in a case challenging their legality, they cannot name the team.The High Court ruled that they were not allowed to name any team to represent Kenya in any championship without involving stakeholders and Nairobi Swimmers Association officials and their lawyers. This is until the case is heard and determined.Following the ruling, the three bodies nominated three members to carry out selection but the process was delayed since KSF could not provide qualifying times for some swimmers.This forced NASA and stakeholders to demand the timings before any selection is done.One of the issues raised concerned Ayushi Chandaria who was one of the 12 women selected. KSF could not provide her timing, raising eyebrows about her selection.KSF also could not explain why she was included in the list since their data base does not have her timings.Another issue concerned the timings for Kamau and Germany-based Sylvia Brunlehner, said to have been achieved in a January meeting. The swimming calendar showed no meeting took place that month.The joint committee was to meet on Tuesday but this did not happen. Hopes for going to South Africa hang in balance as KSF struggles to get the correct data for selected swimmers.Efforts to get in touch with KSF chairman Ben Ekumbo, who is also a member of the joint committee, were futile as his phone was off.Abdalla's father said his son cannot take part in the Africa championship since he started studying in the UK on Monday.Abdalla Hemed also complained that they were forced to cater for all of the swimmers' expenses, yet this is the work of the KSF. We have invested a lot in these swimmers but the federation keeps on failing us. It has let them down," he said.But he confirmed that his son will take part in the world championship in Canada. Kenya is expected to send eight swimmers to the championship.Preliminary squad for Africa championshipWomenRebecca Kamau, Emily Muteti, Sylvia Brunlehner, Maria Brunlehner, Talisa Lanoe, Coral Hays, Ambaar Michaelo, Khatundi Nasimiyu, Anita Field, Imara Bella Thorpe, Emilia Ostaman, Natasha Owino, Ayushi Chandaria, Kiira Geheb and Kira Evans.MenHamdan Bayusuf, Issa Abdalla, Edward Ilako, Kimani Maina, Saahil Harumani, Tory Pragassa, Nobby Obuya, Maahir Harunani, Mohammed Bilal, Naim Bayusuf, Karan Khagram, Samuel Ndonga,Micah Fernandes, Omar Talib and Ridwan Abubakar.