France Vs Romania Friday 10pmMy Prediction: Les Bleus 3-1 TricoloriiEuro 2016 is here and please note: this game will be LIVE on Bamba Sport, Channel 7 Bamba TV; and so will 11 other games including the final! Just thought I d throw that in so that we start on a happy note! The tournament gets underway today in France and going by history; Les Bleus do very well at home. It s tough to forget the final back then when hosts France beat the defending World Cup Champions Brazil 3-0 in the final! Yes; that s how well France do at home and the good news; is that the squad right now is as talented as it was back then. From Antoine Griezmann to Anthony Martial; from Dimitri Payet to N Golo Kante; from Laurent Koscielny to Olivier Giroud who scores more for his country than his club. Manager Didier Deschamps has a dream team at his disposal not to mention the crowd behind him. He won t only win this game; he ll do very well in this tournament. Over to Anghel Iord nescu s team who are some of the countries who just make up the numbers at major tournaments! Romania s top player is Florin Andone who plays as a forward for Cordoba FC a second division club. Their strength though is their defence; having conceding just twice in qualifying; in ten matches. This will be interesting but I think France s attack will be too strong for them.England Vs Russia Saturday 10pmMy Prediction: The Three Lions 3-1 SbornayaThis game will also be LIVE on Bamba Sport so make sure you catch the build up from 930am. Roy Hodgson Vs Leonid Slutsky. I don t know much about Russia except for the fact they sit 29th in the Fifa World ranking and they re up against an England side that are 11th, following an amazing qualifying round. Slutsky took over as manager last year after a very successful stint as manager of CSKA Moscow. Their qualifying round wasn t all that difficult though beating teams like Liechtenstein, Moldov and Montenegro! England have a rather respectable side this time around; and very attack minded. Hodson has the formidable Harry Kane who everything is saying won t succeed on the big stage but I beg to differ. I think the Tottenham front man will rise to the occasion. In attack The Three Lions also have the services of Jamie Vardy, Wayne Rooney not to mention Marcus Rashford and even Raheem Sterling on the wings. Even if Russia score; England will definitely outscore them! Germany Vs Ukraine Sunday 10pmMy Prediction: Die Mannschaft 2-1 The TeamDespite not doing well in a couple of friendlies in the past few weeks,I think the World Champions are still strong favourites to win this tournament. Joachim Loew s team may be plagued by a few minor injuries but he still largely has the same team that won the Brazil World Cup for him intact. Thomas Muller, Mario Gomez and Lukas Podolski still lead the attack and in my view are extremely lethal against any side. Andre Schurrle and Mesut Ozil in supply are known to deliver on the big stage while your goal keeping department can t exactly get better than Manuel Neuer. This team is known to start slow and pick up as the tournament progresses; but what I remember about Brazil was that not one single player stood out for Germany. They were simply a real great, united and determined team. Loew knows how to get the best out of his entire squad. Ukraine, while not a weak side are in trouble here. Germany are fourth in the rankings while Ukraine are a respectable 19th. I actually don t know who the Ukraine player to watch is but I do know that forward Roman Zozulya did well in qualifying. This won t be easy for Germany but they ll win it!