It appears that a married English Premier League star reportedly offered Sh1million for sexual pleasure with big-bottomed female commercial sex workers.The top football star, whose identity is being kept secret for legal reasons, arranged to pay for sex with a prostitute last month.But after initially offering to pay Sh655,000 he changed his mind because her bum wasn t big enough. The Daily Star Sunday claimed that the well-known footballer then asked a fixer to find him an even curvier girl. When he was sent photos of a new girl he allegedly said "a thousand thank you s she looks like she will be much better in bed".The dad, who plays for one of the country s top clubs, arranged the hook-ups through a woman he met online.The unnamed woman sent him pictures of her pal and asked for Sh1.3 million to split between them.He agreed and arranged to pay for the escort to fly to England to meet him the next day. But hours later his team lost and he reportedly asked her to switch the time of their 'date'.He said: The coach is taking us for more training, so can we rearrange for this Friday? The player then tried to bed the female fixer as well even though she admitted she didn t like footballers. He said: I ve just seen one of your photos in a bikini. You re really hot. It s really a shame that you hate us. She joked and replied that he was greedy , but he refused to take no for an answer. He begged: I m serious, would you not just make an exception? At that point the desperate player offered her an extra Sh131,000 for sex.The woman turned him down and the footballer agreed to pay her the Sh1.3 million they had previously agreed.Hours later he changed his mind about the escort because her bum was too small and flat . It s reported he then asked for photos of more curvy vice girls admitting he had a fetish for big bottoms . He then cut the amount he was prepared to pay to just Sh196,500.After being shown a photo of a great girl he phoned his French contact to say a thousand thank you s . He later texted her, You know what? I m ready for her. The wealthy player is then said to have sent his credit card details to book the escort s plane ticket. After discussing a liaison in Paris, the footballer agreed to go to Cannes with a friend to meet the escort last month. But the arrangements are then to have turned sour after the sports star started to make more and more kinky demands. The woman said: In the end she got cold feet and said it wasn t enough money for the sort of sex he wanted so she didn t go.