Attempts at capping interest rates in Kenya have been made twice in the past and failed, but the ghosts of the famous Donde Bill continue to haunt financial institutions. This time round, the proposals made 16 years ago have sailed through Parliament, reincarnated through the Banking (Amendment) Bill of 2015, which is awaiting assent by President Uhuru Kenyatta. As expected, banks are up in arms and capitalists are crying foul while pleading with the president not to sign the bill into law, arguing 'Wanjiku' will suffer and the ripple effect will affect the economy. Numbers don t lie, and a perusal of the financial reports of all top-tier banks will confirm to you that they raked in an average Sh10 billion in pretax profits last year. Clearly, banking and financial institutions are the most profitable business outfits after Safaricom. Our economy is capitalist in nature and every company is obsessed with profits. Profits recorded by banks are consistent and still rising. This is indeed a positive trend, but it should not be at the expense of the customers capitalised on high interest rates.The bill seeks to cap interest rates at four per cent above the Central Bank Rate which currently stands at 10.5 per cent, while the minimum deposit rates will be 70 per cent of CBR. This would put interest on deposit at seven per cent and interest on loans at 14.5 per cent. The provisions in the bill are a replica of the 2002 Donde Bill although it goes further to provide sanity in the management of the banking institutions by proposing penalties for bank officials who breach the law.The argument being posed by the Kenya Bankers Association and lately by CBK governor Patrick Njoroge seem not to make sense to most Kenyans who continue to pay high interest rates (as high as 25 per cent) on loans. Superior economies in the west like the USA, Argentina, France, Canada, Germany, Japan and South Africa have capped interest rates to protect the consumers from exploitation by banks and such economies continue to grow in folds. It is unfortunate that in a country whose population is more than 40 million, only 20,000 can afford mortgages.If the bill is passed, sanity will reign in the banking sector and the banks will stop arbitrarily increasing interest rates, holding customers at ransom. I am not an economist, but I think it is the right time to cap the interest on loans. However, it is important that if the bill becomes law, its implementation should be orderly to protect interests of both banks and customers. Ken Ashimosi is head of commercial practice at Ashitiva and Company Advocates