Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria is either a slow-learner or lost in his obsessive quest for presidential attention. Kuria missed the lesson he should have learnt during the three nights he spent in a cell at Pangani Police Station. The lesson Kuria is yet to learn is the solitude of a sycophant, especially when a 'sycho' crosses the 'red line'. Kuria's rants are always about defending vested interests. The man seeks to impress his master's by appearing to shield them from alternative view. The Jubilee hawk found himself lonely in a world he thought he knew. On account of Suna East MP Junet Muhammed's recollection, Kuria was shocked he had been abandoned. The man was surprised when he 'discovered' he had been thrown under the bus. Kuria was shocked that his Jubilee bosses had abandoned 'them'. By them he meant Kabete MP Ferdinand Waititu and Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri - his co-voyeurs in alleged hate speech. Muhammed recalls Kuria saying he had no more reason to 'hate' Raila Odinga. The former prime minister, the quintessential advocate of fairness, had taken Kuria's phone call, consoled him, and promised to free him for the dungeon. Kuria even invited himself to Raila's house for solace and lunch.Kuria was reported to have understood the meaning of friendship, in the way Jesus did. A friend nurses you when you are sick; feeds you when you are hungry; dresses you up when you are naked; and visits you when you are in prison. Or gives you a helping hand when you are falling. Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale did this to Ngunjiri when the Bahati MP fell ill in court. The doctor-senator was the man of the moment to provide first-aid.How did Kuria learn this? The people they thought they were impressing with alleged reckless statements disowned them. Kuria and Waititu's calls to President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto's returned the message, "Mteja hapatikani kwa Sasa." Subsequent calls to their masters, through presidential aides, returned the message, "We are not in a position to receive your call right now." The quote-machine Majority Leader Aden Duale was indifferent. Instead, Duale responded to the SoS with a text message, "We are looking into the matter." The three courtiers count among Jubilee's tyranny of numbers. There was no hope of Executive intervention. Waititu drowned his sorrows in sleep to forget the smell of Executive betrayal. Perhaps he had learnt the sycophant is alone once he crosses the 'red line'. But all the time Raila was on call. Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama was offering leadership in all fronts - inside and outside the cell. His commanding presence reassured his colleagues that all that would come to pass.Kuria's masters did not visit or console their courtiers when they needed them most. At their vulnerable and naked moment, Kuria, Waititu, and Ngunjiri turned to their usual subjects of disdain for assurance.Kuria did not have to be locked up in a police cell to learn the obvious. But he calls the common knowledge a 'discovery'. Responsible people do not learn from their experiences. Fast-learners draw lessons from other people's experiences.Yet Kuria says, "We have discovered that when we as Kenyans talk to each other, our problems are not insurmountable and our differences are much narrower than we imagine."History shows people are in trouble when brawn replaces brain. Andrew Young, a US civil rights activist, says in 'A Way Out of No Way, "Animals are given to fight or flight, but human beings have the capacity to rise above any situation through the power of the mind and the spirit."The cantankerous Kuria has been in a spot for hostile utterances that do not flatter his integrity, as a honorable member of the 11th Parliament. The Gatundu South MP has pending court cases for these intemperate mouthspills. The National Cohesion and Integration Commission has had to sit Kuria down, but he turns out each time rude and crude. Pray, the man may have learnt a lasting lesson this time.