Leading gullible opposition MPs without access to State largesse is like keeping wild dogs. The challenge is stronger where tumbocracy and corruption rule. But German Shepherds remain friendly to the family and dangerous to intruders for as long as the canines receive their daily portion of beef. A default, even for a day, is fatal.I recall the lesson when someone forgot to feed the dogs - two German Shepherds named Jack and Jill. Jack and Jill were always dependable, friendly, and zealous when well-feed.On this day, the dogs had missed their usual ratio of bones and copious traces of meat. The dogs usually fed at 4pm, but on this day they hadn't had a bite by 7pm. The dogs were agitated. Barking at the wrong targets came easily.By 7.30pm, the dogs were feeling unloved and unappreciated after missing attention for a few, long hours. The dogs were determined to stray. Someone, or something, was going to pay for it.The mudguards of a car parked in the compound would be their meal. It had rained and the mudguards were moistened. Their prey was hidesh and skinny - nothing close to their usual dish.The dogs landed on the car with misplaced rage and appetite. As they pulled out and munched the rubbers, the two dogs looked like mechanics wearing black overalls. They were busy, like the owner of the car had been waiting for the vehicle for hours. The canines worked like their do-by moment had passed.By the time the riot of the dogs was noticed in the house, 60m away, the canines had caused heavy damage. The wiper-can was destroyed. Wiper pipes were mangled. The mudguards were shred out of shape and place. A fine worth Sh12,000 had been imposed, after the dogs missed their meal worth Sh200 for the day.The Coalition for Reforms and Democracy leaders Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka, and Moses Watengula deserve compliments for keeping oppositions MPs this far within tether. The MPs should also be lauded for staying under control, sometimes focused even on the national good, in the face temptations.To be sure, some opposition legislators have fallen to the allure of the aroma of the roasting steak across the fence. They could not stand the aroma as their colleagues savor their turn to eat. Now, it seems some of the politicians can no longer take the scent without the taste. Instead of controlling their restless appetites, they are barking at their owners, allowing intruders to get away with aberrations.Kenyans have a situation here of enraged hounds barking at the wrong target. The rule of man has awoken the beast in men. The orchestrated furore reveals more than it hides.Some opposition MPs as wild canines is not a new metaphor. From the 1990s, on return of multiparty politics, there have always been public orchestrated defections of oppositions MPs. There have been visits to the honeypot at night. There have been rumours of ugali-eating sessions, and debts cleared. The good ones were given treated ugali. The strong-headed ones were punished, driven into bankruptcy by wielders of the pumpkin and the knife.An election they are not sure of winning is approaching. And without a reservoir of cash to fund their campaigns, they need an alternative way of surviving the midnight.Hubris-driven politicians have discovered they are unloved. They are sulking. They claim no one in the party pays attention to them any more. When the temptation is strong on the other side, it's easy to fish for excuses.The restless Wiper MPs also fit this imagery. They want to be close to the honeypot. Machakos County Governor Alfred Mutua may also fit this analogy. The Governnor was elected on an opposition ticket, but for three years now, he has either been barking at the leader of his party, or casting diversionary aspersions at the pillar of the Wiper Democratic Movement, Senator Johnson Muthama.Excited politicians are barking at their party leaders. The Dobermans are running away from their masters, hoping the crumbs would triple.