Arsenal is back! Yes you can laugh because they aren t back in a good way; they are back to the status quo! Great first half of the season; top around Christmas and New Year; crumble in February; and then finish strong when there is nothing to fight for but 4th position!Does this sound sad? Well it should! We are back to the status quo. Somebody really made me laugh this morning after Arsenal got a relatively easy 2-0 victory over West Brom last night! They posted in the Score Kenya facebook group how the calculator fans are back!That was probably the funniest but truest comment ever! Ironically there are some Arsenal fans somewhere saying how we are just ten points off league leaders Leicester with twelve points to play for.So if Leicester and Spurs lose all their remaining fixtures and Arsenal blaa blaa blaa. So mathematically Arsenal could still win the league. What nonsense! The Gunners lost the challenge for the title in January when we went through a series of draws giving up our top spot to Leicester.We then put the nail in the coffin on February 28 when we lost to Manchester United. It wasn t Swansea or West Ham or Crystal Palace last weekend; it was much earlier than that; and that is when the calculations should have stopped!I am very disappointed though by the Arsenal fans in London; those who pay for their season tickets year in year out and who whine when we whine; but actually have a right to because they have a financial interest in the club.They planned a protest walk-out on the 75th minute of last night s West Brom game but it barely happened. Only a handful of fans walked out; although there was a good number who didn t turn up at the stadium at all.But we need a concerted effort for any protest to have a proper effect. Wenger saying he will never leave until his contract runs out; and that he doesn t care what the fans say about him; is disgusting. Yes you gave the Gunners the best years of their lives but it s more than a decade since you brought real pride to the team.Respectfully Wenger should decide on his own when to leave but when he s sinking the ship so far under the sea and refusing to budge; then he might need a little nudge to get out.But as the board refuses to remove him and the fans chickening out of a real protest; then it seems like we need to accept that it will be business as usual for a long time. Man United aren t that far away and it will only take us one loss and a City win to be bumped back to our favourite position 4th!Heaven forbid Man United climb to 3rd and City finishes 5th; but City wins the Champions League and Liverpool the Europa League; Arsenal will find themselves playing Thursday night football next season; and it won t be in a league match.We need to be ready for a disaster. The only thing we do know for sure; is that with Wenger at the helm; we will continue to be "calculator fans" for a long time to come.Talk to me on @CarolRadull on twitter or www.facebook.com/CarolRadull