THE fifth edition of Mara Day Celebration were held in Bomet county on September 15, with the Kenya and Tanzania governments committing to conserve the endangered Mara River basin.The basin, home to the world-famous Maasai Mara National Game Reserve and the Serengeti National Park, is facing threats that could lead to "serious consequences", according to experts.Mara Day was declared on May 4, 2012 by Sectoral Council of Ministers for the Lake Victoria Basin in Kigali, Rwanda, in recognition of the challenges facing the Mara River basin. It s held in Kenya and Tanzania on a rotational basis, and this year s theme was Mara Conservation, My Responsibility .The celebrations aim to promote livelihoods and sustainably conserve the natural ecosystems in the Mara region. Some of the challenges facing the river include increased pollution (it s laden with silt and farmland chemicals), over-abstraction of water and degraded catchment. These have been aggravated by climate change and destruction of the Mau Forest.Scientists have predicted that the river will be extinct in the near future if nothing is done. Water minister Eugene Wamalwa led the Kenyan delegation, while Mara Regional Commissioner Charles Mulingwa led the Tanzanian contingent. "The joint Mara Day celebrations is a clear testimony of the fruits of this bilateral cooperation," the minister said.Mlingwa said: Millions of people and animals depend on this basin. If the necessary steps are not taken, we shall regret later. We don t want to regret, that is why we are here to affirm our commitment to save this ecosystem. Rising participation of the public, civil society and private sector in improving resource management at the Mara River basin will yield sustainability, according to LVBC executive secretary Ally-Said Matano.The Lake Victoria Basin Commission is an institution of the East Africa Community that coordinates and facilitates actors towards the basin s sustainable management.Matano said the private sector s involvement in conserving the Mara River basin rose from three per cent in 2012 to 55 per cent this year. "We have also witnessed increased political and technical commitments to joint management of Mara ecosystems arising from the deal signed between Kenya and Tanzania," Matano said.He said the Water Resources Users Board has been awarded with two international awards in recognition of their role in conserving the Mara River basin.The awards were from the Equatorial Initiatives in 2013 and the International River Foundation of Australia in 2014. Matano called for two EAC partner states sharing Mara River to use research-based studies to formulate science-backed policies to develop the ecosystem sustainably.The studies were carried out in the Lake Victoria Basin.Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto and his Narok counterpart Samuel Tunai welcomed the celebrations and said the Kericho and Nakuru governments should also be brought on board.Rutto said his government has intensified conservation efforts. We have discouraged the washing of vehicles in rivers and equipped car washers to operate elsewhere, he said.He backed the eviction of people from Mau Forest but said it should be done in a humane way. There is no need for us to create war between people and the forest. They should be removed without being attacked or having their houses burnt, Rutto said.Milestones Matano said the Mara Day Celebrations have achieved key milestones in far as the objectives and the intentions of the 10th Sectoral Council of Ministers for Lake Victoria Basin held in Kigali, Rwanda on 4th May 2012 are concerned. Some of the achievements are: