Today, the Republic of Botswana, a southern African state of nearly the same geographical size as Kenya, but with a population of just over 2.2 million inhabitants, celebrates 50 years of Independence. Attaining 50 years by any entity is a historic milestone. That may be why it is called a Golden Jubilee. Botswana has been stable, democratic and peaceful since Independence.These attributes account for the modest successes we have achieved, given the state the country was in when the British flag was lowered and replaced by the republic s blue, black and white one.The achievement of our Golden Jubilee milestone against the frightening realities that confronted us at Independence, gives us many reasons to celebrate. Indeed, the leadership of the young and free multi-racial Botswana had to first negotiate with the threat of destruction from the forces of apartheid while grappling with the lack of basic infrastructure, such as schools, hospitals, paved and tarmacked roads as well as electricity to light up the hopes of an expectant population.The vision of her leaders, led by founding President Sir Seretse Khama, together with minerals and wildlife resources, were pivotal in the unbelievable progress that unfolded before the eyes of the international community. From being listed as one of the poorest countries at Independence Botswana has risen to become a middle-income country, a respected multiparty democracy and a significant player in international affairs.The HIV-Aids pandemic that hit Botswana in the 1990s threatened to reverse the socioeconomic gains made. It equally presented the biggest threat to the survival of our people. As captured aptly at the June 2001 Special UN General Assembly by the then President Festus Mogae, who led from the front in mobilising the biggest anti-HIV-Aids response programme on the continent: We are threatened with extinction. People are dying in chillingly high numbers. It is a crisis of the first magnitude. Thanks to the vision and tenacity of our leadership, and the international aid focused on Botswana but anchored on our own national strategy, we have turned the corner. The HIV-Aids problem, however, remains undefeated in Africa.Botswana and Kenya have enjoyed friendly relations, anchored on the early government-to-government contacts at Independence and strong people-to-people connections. Our two governments collaborate through formalised bilateral platforms and also partner effectively at continental and multilateral fora to promote common interests.There is evidence that the private sector in both countries is keen to harvest the investment opportunities available at either end. As we celebrate 50 years of Independence, we are reminded of the historic contribution that the government and the people of Kenya have played in Botswana s economy.For many years Botswana has hosted Kenyans who continue to contribute to our development as educators, investors and government workers, among others. Kenya has since 1967 hosted Batswana trainees in various fields at its higher institutions of learning. A very good number of the doctors, meteorologists, railway technicians, meat inspectors, journalists and other public service workers in Botswana received their training in Kenya.I have no reason to doubt that the trajectory in the growing relations between Botswana and Kenya will translate to even more benefit for the people of both countries.The founding Presidents of Kenya and Botswana, Mzee Jomo Kenyatta and Sir Seretse, had the vision to a forge strong, friendly and fruitful relationship between our two countries. Botswana remains forever grateful to Mzee Kenyatta we even have a road named Jomo Kenyatta Highway in our capital city Gaborone.As we celebrate Botswana s 50th Independence anniversary, let us all be reminded to build on the strong foundation these iconic leaders laid for the benefit of future generations.John Moreti, High Commissioner of Botswana to Kenya.