Sixteen women legislators have urged male aspirants to stop discrimination against women rivals and, instead, engage them on issues.Led by National Assembly Deputy Speaker Joyce Laboso and Runyenjes MP Cecily Mbarire, they expressed fears over rampant use of sexist statements. The leaders blamed this for the low number of elected women. The MPs visited Embu county on Thursday to drum up support for Mbarire, who has declared to run for governor. In an exercise called Women for Women , they said the resent public spat between Mbarire and Senator Lenny Kivuti was a sign of women s prejudicial treatment.They said the country will realise significant growth if men engaged their women rivals in issue-based politics. The MPs urged women to use their numerical strength to elect fellow women.Present were Zipporah Kering (Nandi), Rachel Shebesh (Nairobi), Beatrice Nkatha (Tharaka-Nithi), Florence Kajuju (Meru), Saipai Tuya (Narok), Sarah Korere, Esther Gathogo (Ruiru) and Peris Tobiko (Kajiado East).Others were Sanjeev Birdi, Naisula Lesuuda, Beatrice Elachi (nominated), Alice Wahome (Kandara), Rachel Nyamai (Kitui Central) and Mary Emaase (Teso South). Kirinyaga governor hopeful Anne Waiguru also attended. I urge my rivals to respect me as an equal competitor and not mistreat me because I m a woman. I ll reciprocate in equal measure. If they look down on me, I ll get angry. We should not be told we ll be bought like vegetables, Mbarire said.She said she has faced gender-based discrimination in her 15 years in politics and the situation has not changed. Mbarire said her goal is to improve county leadership by managing its resources well.The women MPs have formed lobby to woo voters to elect their women colleagues at the next election. The Women for Women lobby targets to improve the number of elected women leaders in Parliament and counties. Members have urged women to change their attitude toward fellow women, who aspire for political seats. They say this will help realise the constitutional two-third gender rule, in which no gender should hold more than two-thirds of elective and appointive seats.