Lagdera MP Mohamed Shidiye has urged the national and the county governments of Isiolo and Garissa and NGOs to help families that were displaced during the border clashes between the Borana and Somali.Since the clashes broke out a week ago, six people from the two communities have been killed.It all stated in Eldera, Garbatulla, when a Somali herder was killed. The Somali retaliated and killed three people from the Borana community. The most affected areas are Tana, Brambati, Makadakal, Belgish and Boji.On Friday night, a 24-year-old herder was killed by a group of armed militia at Biliqo Bulesa, Isiolo county. He was taking his animals to a watering point. Shidiye, in whose constituency some of the people affected come from, said the number of those hit by the clashes is growing by the day. He spoke to the press in Modogashe town, when he visited some of the displaced families. We are facing a mass exodus of people moving from their homes for fear of attack, Shidiye said. It is for this reason that we are calling on the Special Programmes ministry, the county governments and NGOs to provide food and shelter to the displaced families. Shidiye called for a ceasefire between the two communities. He said they should stop the retaliatory attacks and instead give dialogue a chance. Shidiye said the two communities have lived peacefully for decades.A peace meeting is scheduled for next Thursday. It is aimed at finding a lasting solution to the problem. The meeting will be held in Nanyuki town. It will bring together local leaders and community members from the two communities.Last week, Garissa Governor Nathif Jama urged Northern Kenya politicians to stop inciting the two communities.He said the political class has a responsibility to promote unity and peaceful coexistence, instead of making utterances that aggravate an already worsening situation. Nathif urged the national government to intervene to avert more deaths and retaliatory attacks. The national government should be constantly alert to citizens problems. Security officers should secure the affected areas and open up safe corridors for families trapped in the clashes, he said. The county chief said the government should not wait until residents are killed to take action.