Nominated MP Zuleikha Juma on Tuesday walked out of a meeting after Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya allegedly denied her a chance to speak.The meeting was convened to discuss issues around mining in Kwale and was led by Mvurya and CS Dan Kazungu.Juma accused the Governor of playing "Jubilee politics" after he reportedly refused to let her ask questions and closed the meeting promptly.Although the MP arrived at the meeting late, she said it was her right to be allowed to ask questions to resolve issues that have caused tension in the area.She said there was no need of inviting leaders in such a meeting, only to deny them an opportunity to give their views.Speaker Sammy Ruwa was also reportedly not given an opportunity to speak at the meeting. I told governor Mvurya that I wanted to ask some questions to be responded to by Kazungu but he insisted on winding up the meeting. Why did they invite me in the first place? It was wrong because we are people s representatives, she said.She accused MCAs, led by Michael Mutua and Suleiman Nzala, for backing Mvurya when he closed the meeting.The MCAs claimed that discussions had been exhausted and locals were assured that no exploration licence would be issued to Base Titanium Company by the national government.Nominated MCA Mutua said: Mvurya is the Kwale voice and they have spoken and so the meeting is over. Locals have spoken, MCAs have spoken and governor who we trust has spoken. Let us end this meeting. How can they stand and say since Mvurya has spoken and the CS has heard him everything is okay. We have other leaders who represent locals and have all rights to be given a chance in such meetings to speak, said the MP.She said that most of the leaders who attended the meeting were Jubilee-affiliated, including MCAs who supported Mvurya to end the meeting before other leaders gave their views.Read: ODM set to replace 'cowardly' Mvurya in 2017 polls They didn t want me to speak because I am not in the county government, which happens to have joined Jubilee, she said.Juma said it was wrong for them bringing party issues in a very sensitive meeting like that.Also read: Jubilee wins big in Coast as Mvurya ditches ODMThe Speaker, who recently joined ODM before Mvurya left for Jubilee, said he was not given a chance to speak despite volunteering his time for the meeting. If I did not want to speak I couldn t have even attended. There was a program but I was not asked to speak at all, Ruwa said.Kwale county secretary Martin Mwaro said that the Land ministry was the one that had the program. We were all invited as county government leaders but I was given a chance to only introduce my people before handing over the program to national government, he said.Mvurya fell out with Juma who is aspiring for the woman rep post in the area after he ditched ODM on 10 September 2016.He has also not been in good terms with Ruwa after he announced plans to challenge him in 2017.