Kosirai and Soweto to set the ball rolling at East African schools gamesKenya girls volleyball rivals AIC Kosirai and Soweto will lock horns on Saturday in the Brookeside Federation of East Africa Secondary Schools Sports Association games in Eldoret.The two will clash in the opening match of the championship at Eldoret Polytechnic. The two teams clashed during the Airtel Rising Stars national secondary schools championships in Kisumu with Soweto winning the preliminary match 3-2 while Kosirai avenged the loss in the final winning by the same set score.Kibera based Soweto coach Johnstone Makabwa vowed to avenge the defeat at the regional bonanza and his wish has been granted with the teams being drawn in the same group.St Anne s Sega will also seek to take revenge on Lugulu when in the opening match of pool "B". During the national championships, Lugulu easily beat Sega by straight sets.Rwanda s St Allows will face Kinawa High from Uganda while GS Indangaburezi from Rwanda will start their campaign against representatives from South Sudan.The games will be played at Eldoret Sports Club, Hill School, Eldoret Polytechnic and Moi Girls Eldoret, according to Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association secretary general David Ngugi.In the boy s category, Kenya s defending champions Cheptil will face Tetu as last year s regional runners up Malava entertain Sengera SDA.Defending champions Rusumo High from Rwanda will play LD Nyanza in another game while St Mary s Kitende of Uganda battle fellow countrymen Burembe. Tanzania s Makongo will play Luyanzi from Uganda. In boy s soccer, Kenya s defending champions Laiser Hill Academy will renew rivalry with last year s winners Passenga in the opening game while national runners up Barding face a tricky fixture against Zanzibar s Charawe. Uganda s Masaka will entertain representatives from South Sudan.Kenya s girl s soccer champions start their campaign against compatriots Nyakach Girls while Wiyeta will face Kenya s other representatives Ngida Girls.Burundi s ETG Nyakabiga will play ES Mutunda from Rwanda as Uganda s Mukono battles it out with Kibasila from Tanzania.Uganda s Kawempe Muslim faces fellow Ugandans Masaka while Rwanda s Remera will entertain Tanzania s Alliance.Saturday s other fixtures;Netball St. Mary s Kitende (Ug) vs Kizuka (Tz) Obambo (Ke) vs Cheptil(Ke) Exodus(Ug) vs Kaya Tiwi (Ke) London College (Ug) vs K. Ukawani (Tz)Basketball GirlsMary's, Kitende (Ug) Vs Nabisunsa (Ug) Buruburu (Ke) Vs Lycee de Kigali (Rw) Kaya Tiwi (Ke) Vs Barchando (Ke) Buddo SS (Ug) Vs Juhudi (Tz) College Gisenyi (Rw) Vs L D Tanganyika (Bu)Basketball boysETG Nyakabiga (Bu) Vs Alliance (Ke) Buddo (Ug) Vs Makongo (Tz)Upper Hill (Ke) Vs Kapenguria (Ke) PS Baptiste (Rw) Vs (S.Su)Hockey Girls Sinyolo (Ke) 2. Kerugoya (Ke) Tigoi (Ke) 4. Kakungulu Memeorial (Ug) Old Kampala (Ug) 6. Namagunga (Ug)Hockey BoysKamusinga (Ke) vs Upper Hill (Ke) St. Antony s (Ke) Vs St. Mary's, Kasasa (Ug) Kakungulu Memorial (Ug) vs Ntare School (Ke)]Handball girlsMatuu Memorial (Ke)Vs L. Technique (Bu) Matuu Memorial (Ke) Vs Sega Girls (Ke) Mbogo High (Ug) Vs Moi Kamusinga(Ke) Apega (Rw) Vs (S.Su)Handball BoysES Kigoma (Rw) Vs Mwanakwerekwe (Zan) Makongeni (Ke) Vs Kibuli (Ug) Kimilili (Ke) Vs St. Peter s (Ke) Gisenyii (Rw) Vs Dynamic (Ug)