Senator Moses Wetang'ula is lucky he is not, and was not, Brother Francis Atwoli's math student, otherwise the lawyer would be getting daily strokes of the cane. Wetang'ula's math teachers must have spared the cane to spoil the lawyer.Numbers, we are told, do not lie. Sometimes they speak with brutal precision. The data can be analysed, checked and counter-checked. But Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang ula is not interested in the science of numbers. He would rather throw tantrums and preach tribally defined voting blocs.Wetang ula could himself hire opinion pollsters to verify these figures in Bungoma, Kakamega, Vihiga, Busia, Migori, Nyeri, Mombasa, Kisumu, Kajiado and Garissa. Numbers can also be manipulated. It has happened in this ethnic-defined polity, where jerrymandering comes easily to the insecure power elite.Given the figures fed to the public every too often by opinion pollsters, opposition leaders do not need to sequester themselves, arguing about presidential candidates popularity ratings. There is, probably, an excuse rather than reason for these emotive and ethnic-defined discussions. Some external forces could be influencing these discussions to rationalise defections. Cotu boss Francis Atwoli says someone is muddying the waters, and tribalising perception to bait the gullible. They cheat themselves that they are going to government to get development. Those leaving ODM will hang there; those going to Jubilee will not be accepted back, Atwoli warns.Bungoma Governor Kenneth Lusaka and Water CS Eugene Wamalwa are dissolving their party - New Ford Kenya. They are going to government . But Lusaka does not tell the Bukusu what happens to his government when he gets to government . The Bungoma government receives about Sh7 billion in devolved funds every financial year for development. Is Bungoma giving up on devolution?Fred Gumo, a long-time Kanu hawk, and an ODM MP in the last Parliament, is clearing and forwarding the people going to government to get development. Perhaps it is the aroma of government that is causing the impatience.Atwoli will need to drill these figures down Wetang ula s math-free emotions. Here are the facts this far: First Class belongs to top scorers. Do not expect a 20 per cent student to get top honours, a year before graduation. Wetang ula has always been a below average student. But he is free to enjoy the delusion of grandeur, without abusing the facts.He has consistently scored a 1.4 per cent popularity rating ever since he was captured in the radar of presidential opinion ranking. Former Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka, a gentleman, scores 2.8 per cent; Martha Karua stakes 1.2 per cent.Cord co-principal Raila Odinga has the highest score amongst opposition presidential aspirants 30 per cent. The total score of potential opposition presidential candidates does not come close to Raila s average. There must then be another reason Wetang ula says the former Prime Minister cannot make the grade. The excuse is tribal - externally engineered to legitimise impunity.Pollsters give President Uhuru Kenyatta an average 45 per cent against Deputy President William Ruto s 1.8 per cent. And Ruto isn t sulking; he knows his place.Raila has a popularity rating of 40 per cent in Western 10 times Wetang ula s four per cent on his home-turf. Raila scores 23 per cent to Kalonzo s nine per cent in Eastern. These figures should guide opposition thinking, without pandering to intrigues. Wetang ula needs another excuse to support his claim to first class honours.A potential presidential candidate whose score could be zero when a margin of error of two to three per cent is considered, cannot claim top honours. Realpolitik has no room for affirmative action, which Wetang ula craves.