Tapio hopes to make it two out of two in EldoretKenya National Rally Championship leader Tapio Laukannen hopes to make it two in a row this weekend as over 30 drivers return to the home of champions for the KCB Eldoret Rally 2016.A faultless performance on the world- famous Floursper/Nyaru terrain last season saw the Flying Finn lead from start to finish to clinch his maiden win in Eldoret only for the KNRC title to elude him much to his chagrin.This time round, the championship leader hopes to win again to keep his title hopes alive, which is why he is determined to delivered another masterclass on high altitude gravel in Elgeyo Marakwet and Uasin Gishu counties.Tapio (born September23, 1969 in Lahti) won the 1996 Finnish Rally Championship in a Volkswagen Golf GTi and the British Rally Championship in 1999 with a Renault Megane Maxi twinned with fellow Finn, Kaj Lindstr m.Tapio has indeed sat with several co-drivers including Jorma Kaikkonen , Risto Mannisenm ki, Tapio J rvi, Ilkka Riipinen, Rory Kennedy and now Pasi Torma who has navigated him in the KNRC for the past two seasons.Tapio, who has for the last two seasons raced on a Kenya national competition licence, will be the star attraction in the Western Kenya Motor Club organised rally. The strategy is the same as last year, to keep it clean and drive sensibly fast. We will attack where necessary to ensure we can collect as many championship points as possible, said Tapio who will renew his rivalry with top drivers among the Carl Flash Tundo, Champion Jaspreet Chatthe, Baldev Chager, Rajbir Rai, Onkar Rai and six times legendary KNRC champion Ian Duncan.Two Ugandans Kepher Walubi and Duncan Mubiru aka Kikankane are set to spice up this year s WKMC organized event.Veteran codriver George Mwangi is back to navigate Osman Abdullahi. Mwangi who is the only black indigenous navigator to have won the Safari Rally with Azar Anwar has called upon by Osman to fill the void left behind by Evans Mwenda.Hosts Eldoret to field two drivers in Umar Khalid and Miten Lodhia.Home co-driver Kimeli Korir also back and will be calling pace notes for Lodhia.All-female crew of Tash Tundo and Chantal raring to go.The rally will start in Eldoret and finish in Iten better known as the home of champions.KCB Eldoret Rally entries so far:-1. Umar Khalid/Salim Mohammed (Subaru GC8)2. Taiti Wachira/Kimaru Boit (EVO6)3. Kepher Walubi/Susan Kalema (Evolution 10-UG)4. Duncan Mubiru Kikankane /Ssemakula George (Evolution 10-UG)5. Leonardo Varese/Kigondu Kareithi (Toyota Corolla RSI)6. Mahesh Halai/Ketan Halai (Subaru N12)7. Izhar Mirza/Kavit Dave (Evolution 9)8. Dennis Mwenda/Job Njiru (Evolution 9)9. John Njenga/Anthony Njenga (Subaru N10)10. Miten Lodhia/Kimeli Korir (Subaru N10)11. Edward Maina/Stephen Mbuthia (Subaru)12. Piero Cannobio/Silvia Frigo (Evolution10)13. Chandrakhant Devji Chandu/Julius Mwachuya (Subaru GC8)14. Asad Khan Kalulu/Harshil Limbani (Subaru GC8)15. Jaspreet Chatthe/Gurdeep Panesar (Evolution 10)16. Sammy Nyorri/Mwamgi Kioni (Toyota RunX)17. Natasha Tundo/Chantal Young (Subaru N10)18. Manvir Baryan/Drew Sturrock (Ford Fiesta R5)19. Tapio Laukkanen/Pasi Torma (Subaru R4)20. Eric Bengi/Tuta Mionki (Toyota RunX)21. Tejveer Rai/Zahir Shah (Evolution10)22. Farhaaz Khan/Keith Henrie (Evolution 9)23. Rajbir Rai/Greg Stead (Ford Fiesta)24. Carl Flash Tundo/Tim Jessop (Ford Proto)25. Amaanraj S. Rai/Tauseef Khan (Evolution 10)26. Ian Duncan/Amaar Slatch (Evolution 10)27. Sam Karangatha/Edward Ndukui (Subaru Leon)28. Jasmeet Chana/Rvi Chana (Evolution10)29. Osman Abdullahi/George Mwangi (Subaru WRX Station Wagon)30. Alex Lairang i/Tony Gichohi (Toyota Sprinter GT)31. Steve Mwangi/Jonathan Kosgey (Subaru Impreza)32. Baldev Singh Chager/Ravi Soni (Evolution 10)33. Ramesh Vishram/Riyaz Ismail (Ford Escort MK2)34. Onkar Rai/Gareth Dawe (Evolution 10)