Over the years, culture week has been part and parcel of the Universities across the world. Students get to set aside the monotony of academics and get into fun activities. We've seen Kenyatta University hosting their gala at the KICC and had a lot of students and non students turned up for the event since it guaranteed to be very exciting. Different Universities have various ways of holding their culture weeks. Some will dress as their ancestors did, dance like their grandparents did back in the day, cook their traditional foods and share them out with other communities.As this happens, friendships are built simply because you saw dance style that was intriguing and asked to be taught or you loved the traditional food prepared by people of community X considering you belong in community Y. Culture week brings out a side of people that students will never see while sitting in that economics, mathematics or physics class. It's the time that even the most reserved person gets to let loose. Leaderships in certain schools have gone a step further in building cultural integrity during culture week. Since our Universities have students from outside Kenya, you find that during this week, all Kenyans regardless of your ethnicity come together and stand as one country. This is the Kenya most of us want since we have already suffered enough losses due to tribalism. Once friendships are built at an early stage, it the becomes very hard to break that bond.Some have grown their talents into successful businesses through showcasing their art during this week and it bore fruits. This unity then helps students to appreciate the beauty that is offered by other countries not as Kalenjins, Taitas but as Kenyans. Same goes for Tanzanians, they don't appreciate Kenyans talents as the Gujirati or Hadza but as Tanzanians. Different communities from one area come together as one and show appreciation of another. It may seem like a waste of time to some but once you get to see and understand the positives brought out by culture weeks in campuses, it may not seem like such a waste of time.