Manchester United supporters can be so annoying. So utterly annoying. In every whatsapp group I m in; apart from the Arsenal group, where no United supporters are allowed; they ve been going on and on about Leicester winning the league over the Gunners being chucked out of the Champions League.Guys who never talk about football have not shut up this entire week. I feel as if I m missing something! While I am disappointed about all these elements and shouting, Wenger Must Go is now such a clich that I won t even mention it.I don t see why fans, whose teams are doing much worse than ours, are even talking. For the past three seasons ever since Sir Alex Ferguson left; Man United have finished behind Arsenal in the league. This season, Arsenal went further in the Champions League than the Manchester club and yet their fans still have a voice.Again I ask; am I missing something? It s easy to bring out the argument that this was Arsenal s best chance of winning the league in the last decade but that s because other big teams have performed so poorly. Yes, that s true but I long for the day when Arsenal will win the league in a season, where the big teams are in good form.For me, that would be a real test of our prowess as a top club. Yes, it s painful to realise that we won t win the league this season, but then again, neither will United or Man City. Chelsea won t even qualify for next season s Europa League. So as much as Arsenal have this list of faults; things could be a lot worse. Now that I ve cleared up the matter of why fans of other big clubs should be quiet; let me look inward and criticise my own.It s no excuse for us to be substandard just because other big teams are having a sub-standard season. We are a team that used to win leagues during competitive seasons; go past the round of 16 in the Champions League and win the FA Cup when we wanted. We ve done okay in the FA Cup over the past few years but falling to Watford this term was embarrassing.As much as my pal Ben Kitili keeps telling his fellow Arsenal fans to stop whining; I can t help it sometimes. When I look at our squad, we literally have just one major position missing. We could do with a tighter defence but the critical area is the striking force. Just one position! You can t convince me that manager Arsene Wenger has been unable to make a case to the board since the departure of Robin Van Persie, to get a world class striker. Not a good one, a world class one!Seriously, that one important position would mean wonders for the club and even add to our bank account because we would go further in major competitions. Players like Joel Campbell and even Alex Iwobi could have great careers at the club but they aren t ready yet. We need just one big ready-made front-man! I wish to the high heavens that we had cashed in and bought Luis The Biter Suarez when the opportunity arose because he would have earned his salary back himself. I m sorry I whine quite a bit but it s frustrating when you know you can do better, but you aren t doing it.The Champions League is gone; the FA Cup is gone; the League title is gone and once again we re back to where we are every March saying next season! Talk to me on @CarolRadull on twitter or www.facebook.com/CarolRadull