A group of disgruntled politicians at the Coast has mounted a strong campaign to dislodge ODM, the strongest party in this region. It is a grouping of legislators who were elected on ODM-Cord tickets in the 2013 elections, but now, disillusioned, they are asking voters to abandon the party and vote Jubilee in 2017.The group leader is Kilifi North MP Gideon Mung aro, who at one time served as opposition chief whip in the National Assembly and also chair of the Coast Parliamentary Group.The protesting legislators are saying many things about the Exit ODM call. They are saying the Coast is tired of remaining in the opposition and that it is time the region became part of government in order to realise faster development; they are blaming Cord and ODM leader Raila Odinga for not doing much for this region when he was in government as Prime Minister; and they are telling people to appreciate what the Jubilee government has done for this region, including issuing title deeds and appointing Coast people to government jobs, even though the region did not vote Jubilee.The dissenting politicians have gone further in their protest. They are opposed to Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho s declared interest in running for President in 2022. The dissenting politicians are drawn mainly from the populous Mijikenda community and they claim that Joho is from the minority. It should be noted that Joho is of Arab and Arab-African descent, an affluent minority sub-group, which has controlled Mombasa county and lower Coastal politics for decades. Three factors have triggered the ongoing protest against ODM in this region. One was Mung aro s sacking as opposition whip in the National Assembly; the second was his ouster as chair of the Coast Parliamentary Group; and the third, and most important, was the humiliating defeat of the Jubilee party under him and his group in the recent Malindi by-election. These factors have rendered Mung aro a lame duck in his quest for regional political supremacy, hence the protests and revolts to restore confidence and reclaim the lost glory.Unfortunately, the call to abandon ODM is more of a media event than realpolitick. While the revolting politicians are asking people to abandon ODM, they are not offering solutions. They are not telling people which party they should join and who to vote for. Worse still, despite the noise to abandon ODM, the protesting politicians are still stuck in this party, sensing possible defeat at the polls in any ensuing by-elections. In effect, the rebellion against ODM in the Coast region is a rebellion without a cause. ODM has deep roots in this region. Since the 2005 Constitutional Review Referendum, the Orange party has been identified with Coastal aspirations, namely, devolution, hope and redemption. The situation is aggravated by the absence of a substantive regional leader. In the absence of that leader, Raila and his ODM party have since 2005 occupied this empty space. Now, if Coast people have to abandon ODM, as is being suggested by the dissenting voices, where would they go? By its own actions, Jubilee has not proved itself the alternative party to Coastal aspirations. What Coast communities want are practical resolutions to long-standing social injustices, including land issues, fair distribution of national resources and jobs in the public sector and foreign service.Coast aspirations are not limited to issuing title deeds to the few at the expense of the suffering landless majority in the rural areas; neither are they about appointing rejected politicians to government jobs simply because the appointees come from this region. Jubilee needs to go the extra mile if it has to feel the political heartbeat of Coastal communities. Otherwise, efforts by the Mung aro group beseeching Coast people to abandon ODM shall come a cropper.