Defending Africa Cup Sevens champions Kenya beat minnows Nigeria 33-5 at the Kasarani Stadium yesterday.Morans were quick off the blocks in the searing hot conditions and Ginton Adongo touched down with skipper Michael Wanjala adding the conversion for a 7-0 lead.Kenya bullied the Nigerians in contact and at the breakdown and fly-half Kevin Keegan sliced open the Nigerian defence before passing the ball to Adongo, who scored his second try.Wanjala kicked over the conversion for a 14-0 lead. The West African briefly flickered into life with Joshua Effong and Alfred Sunday leading the charge but poor decision making and a high error rate cost them. Against the run of play, Lameck Dunde picked loose ball and dashed to the try-line with Wanjala kicking over the conversion for a 21-0 lead at the interval.On resumption, Dunde scored his second try which was not converted as they led 26-0. Nigeria gained possession from the resultant kick-off and Felix Chidera crossed the whitewash, evading the tackle of substitute Martin Wanjia at the corner to score an unconverted try to reduce the margin to 26-5.Substitute Aluda Beda, who has been in fine form for Kabras in the national sevens circuit then showed his prowess with a well taken try beating three Nigeria defenders to cross the whitewash for an unconverted try to complete the scoring.Coach Paul Murunga said the team can get better and was saving the best for the knockout phases. We have a couple of areas to work on in the team. Our ball retention and line-out didn t go according to plan but as we go along, we will improve and get better, added Murunga.Skipper Michael Wanjala was delighted with the performance. The first game is always tricky. We settled and we controlled possession very well and were able to score three very quick tries which gave us a good platform to dominate. Kenya were due to play Senegal in their final game of the evening last night.In other results, Uganda upset last years runners up Zimbabwe 19-14 in hotly contested match. The Sables of Zimbabwe opened the scoring through Tafadzwa Mhenda with Stephen Hunduza kicking over the conversion for a 7-0 lead. Kayiwa Ssebuliba leveled matters for the Cranes and he was on the score sheet minutes later with an unconverted try and a 12-7 lead. The Sables re-grouped and veteran Tafadzwa Chitokindo showed the Ugandans a clean pair of heels to cross the line with Hunduza kicking over the conversion for a 14-12 lead in favour of the Zimbabwe.On resumption, both sides who looked evenly matched, attacking at every opportunity with both defences standing tall. It took a moment of magic from Kabras Phillip Wokorach to score the winning try which he converted to seal the win for the Cranes. In other match, Namibia edged Tunisia 17-5 as Madagascar beat Morocco 19-0.