The human resource management profession is now under a new epoch of the Human Resource Management Professionals Act, 2012. Among the pillars of the law is the registration of all HR professionals in Kenya, a role given to IHRM. The importance of registration is to help the institute in monitoring professional conduct and practice of its members. The registration will equally increase the visibility of the HR profession putting the institute in the same category with other professional bodies. This will boost its stature. The coming together of these professionals will therefore, offer a platform on which their concerns will be addressed and serve as a channel through which professional best practices are learnt and shared. Anybody whose name does not appear in the IHRM role of membership will therefore be regarded a quack whose practice is illegal and as a result, invalid.Pursuant to Section 45(5) of the Act, HR professionals were given a twelve (12) months grace period to comply with the provisions of the Act. However, the council through its own wisdom extended this grace period for a further period of two years. The extension was necessitated by the fact that essential infrastructure was lacking for full operationalisation of the Act. The extended period now stands expired on the night of 31st of December 2016.Since then, the council has taken its responsibility of educating and sensitizing all those offering HR services to ensure that they are properly accredited. The council is indeed delighted with the response that has followed this call and the support it has received from various stakeholders key among them the Ministry of Public Service, Youth and Gender Affairs in its efforts of disseminating this information. Other Stakeholders who have equally played a vital role are The Federation of Kenyan Employers, Kenya Association of Manufacturers and Kenya Private Sector Alliance.The institute has set up the compliance office, which is charged with the enforcement of provisions of the Act. Section 40 and 41 of the Act has spelled out punitive measures for those who will not have complied by the end of the set deadline. Those found culpable therefore, risk a two-year jail term, a fine of Sh200,000 or both. We encourage all employers to ensure that persons carrying out HR duties in their organisations are certified. Potential members in both the public and private sectors are encouraged to comply and ensure they are in good standing with the institute.