Nowadays we have party funding in Kenya. Parties receive taxpayer's money. Therefore, all Kenyans have an interest in how these parties are run.So when it comes to party nominations - to the extent that these parties receive public funds from a legal point of view, if there is a nomination exercise in one party (let us say the Jubilee Party) someone from the rival Cord Alliance can go to court over it.In other words, even a person who does not belong to a specific political party can go out and sue that party if it has held a shoddy nomination exercise.So an ODM member can challenge the procedures used in nominations in Jubilee: And vice versa. When these parties accepted taxpayer money, they opened themselves up to scrutiny by all taxpayers. So the political parties really have no choice but to hold proper nominations.Take, for example, what happened at Kasarani when the Jubilee Party was formed. What we saw there was a lack of party discipline writ large.This is rooted in the fact that in Kenya political parties only become active towards elections. You do not find them one year after a general election organising themselves, recruiting more members, and so on.I would ask: Have you seen anyone offering ODM or JP membership cards in recent weeks? It all even raises doubts about how those Kasarani delegates were elected. This is also what leads to the assumption that anyone called Onyango must belong to ODM; and if you are called Kamau, you must belong to TNA. And so on.So we really need a strong civil society and an informed electorate to challenge these political parties and to demand that they follow the proper rules for their nominations. They have to enforce party discipline by having firm structures. It is pointless to have a political party that does not have strong structures which support their internal institutions.The truth is that in the absence of their current leaders, most political parties will simply collapse. This is because these leaders have not created structures or institutions that can carry their parties forward.So, a party that cannot even conduct a disciplined primary election, hold a disciplined nomination exercise and convention should not even receive public money. What we saw at Kasarani was a typical example of dependency syndrome.End the dependency syndrome created by our political elite.Lempaa Suyianka is litigation counsel at the Katiba Institute