A section of Eldoret residents are up in arms over the unbecoming behaviour of a senior Traffic police officer at the Kiambaa police station. Although the rules require that officers on duty patrol must wear police uniforms, the one patrolling the Outspan-Nakuru-Eldoret highway does so without the uniform on weekends while using official government vehicles. He blocks matatus and private vehicles and confiscates the motorists driving licenses. Corridors has it that one has to part with something small on pain of trumped-up charges. Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet, (pictured) the ball is squarely in your court on this one. ****A Turkana tycoon who is eyeing the county s senatorial position in 2017 has sent his rivals into panic. The man, who is also a State House operative, was recently endorsed by his community elders for the position installed the community spokesman during a recent colourful ceremony in the area. Following these developments, the man is bragging to have already won the seat even before the Election Day and the announcement of results. As if this were not enough, the monied young man, nicknamed Sonko because of his generous contribution to various development projects and initiatives in the county, is planning to splash big time on his campaigns to spread the Jubilee message far and wide. He recently acquired a chopper and top-of-the-range vehicles that will traverse the rugged terrain of the expansive county, famous for volcanic rocks, scorching heat and humid temperatures. ****JUST when will the National Transport Safety Authority ever wake up and perform its duties? Corridors is reliably informed that despite numerous complaints of evening harassment and bad behaviour against the ROG crew whose matatus ply Route 23 - Town to Kariobangi South Estate - the regulatory authority in charge of the transport sector seems to be in deep slumber. Commuters have nowhere to turn and the CBET sacco that also plies the route is the worst. The complaints range from overloading to picking up of passengers at ungodly places and playing of deafening music. The gangway is especially full of suspicious characters who pickpocket passengers as they alight. The most harassed are the women, mothers with children and the elderly. Attempts to have a roadblock stationed near the PCEA church have only enhanced the bribe demanded by Traffic police.