A family in Kagaa village, Murang a county are appealing for spiritual assistance to help them cast away what they term as a demonic attack on their children. Since April, Grace Wanjiru and Malka Mburu have been suffering from what is believed to be a witchcraft spell, which has caused sleepless nights for family members.When the Star arrived their home on Thursday, we found about 20 neighbours conducting a communal prayer session. Before the prayer session was over, the sisters started displaying uncontrolled bodily movements, something that went on for about 15 minutes.The women jerked, jumped and threw themselves on the ground and started puffing like snakes. All the while, their eyes were rolled into the back of their heads and they seemed to be having an out of body experience. It took the effort of people present at the house to keep the sisters from hurting themselves.Wanjiru, a mother of five, said she has been suffering from frequent and unexplained ailments for the last four months.She said it all started with a nosebleed and slight headaches, and when examined, doctors were unable to detect the cause of the problem."Whenever I collapse, my limbs tremble so much and I feel as though my head has been detached from the rest of my body," she said."I also get some funny feelings [as though] some spirits are invading my systems. They take me to some cemetary, but whenever I pray, they bring me back to my real self though this is usually a severe battle with them," she added.Wanjiru, who is also a widow, said the attacks have left her unable to fend for her children and she has been forced to depend on her ageing parents, who are jobless.She said her children are only able to attend school by the grace of neighbours and teachers who sympathise with their plight.On her part, Mburu traced the origin of the episodes to their former place of residence in Kenol subcounty. The mother of two said she had complications when she gave birth. I have been falling sick so often especially when we resided in Kagaa, Kenol. When it became unbearable, I prayed to God to get us away from that place. That is why you see us living in this incomplete house."Mburu claims that in the previous home, she would get a vision of a 'very big snake' that would come and keep vigil in their homestead. She said she would also get visions of unexplained dangers that were about to hit the family.After leaving that area to settle in Kabati, her children also started developing epileptic symptoms. She said even after visiting various hospitals and administering several x-rays, doctors have never been unable to diagnose their real problems.The sisters and their family are now appealing to well-wishers to come to their aid as many false prophets have been visiting their home. They said no tangible results have been achieved and that such prophets are only interested in demanding for money from the family.They are also appealing to people who possess the gift of spiritual to come and pray for divine intervention.