Western Stima striker Wesley Kemboi is the SJAK/Sportpesa September Player of the Month. Kemboi beat Gor Mahia s George Blackberry Odhiambo and Allan Wanga in a vote conducted by football writers.Kemboi garnered 18 points, beating Odhiambo to second spot with 11 points while Wanga was third on seven points. Kemboi scored match winning goals against AFC Leopards and City Stars in Stima s only league fixtures during the month. The 29-year-old ensured the Sh100, 000 and a 43 LG Smart Television, which comes with the award, remained in the club following teenager Kenneth Muguna s conquest in AugustThat the initial list of nominees had three players from Western Stima indicates the industry among players from Henry Omino s stable. Muguna and defender Joash Onyango, however, failed to get into the three-man shortlist leaving Kemboi to battle Wanga and Odhiambo. His victory capped a stunning coach and player of the month double for Western Stima after Henry Omino was last week crown September s best tactician.After a slow start to the season marred by injuries, the player whose top flight career started in 2011, looks to the future with promise. I m happy to have been deemed best player in September and I want to keep working hard and smart to be among the best, said Kemboi whose appetite to return to the national team remains high. He played for Kenya under Frenchman Henry Mitchel in a friendly against South Africa but has not caught the eye of current youthful Harambee Stars technical bench. I do not want to state my desire by mere words. My work on the pitch should speak for me and catch the eyes of current technical bench. If I continue scoring and playing well, I m sure there will be space for me in the national team. We are also in a good position where everybody has to look at us. It is encouraging that a number of players from the squad have had call-ups to recent national team training camps, he added.Omino hailed Kemboi s influence in the dressing room, saying his guidance has helped younger players who are joining the team. When you have experienced players like Kemboi and a number of young ones coming into the team, his guidance is vital as the new and younger ones look up to him. He s been immense; he has a great attitude and discipline which others emulate and he s among the most prolific forwards we have in the country, Omino said.