Marion Cotillard has revealed she is pregnant with her second child but vehemently denies having an affair with Brad Pitt after reports of cheating emerged amid the actor's split from Angelina Jolie this week.Cotillard, 40, wrote a lengthy Instagram message to make the announcement and to dispel rumours on Wednesday. 'This is going to be my first and only reaction to the whirlwind news that broke 24 hours ago and that I was swept up into,' the actress began, addressing reports she and Pitt had sparked a romance during the filming of their new WWII drama Allied. 'I am not used to commenting on things like this nor taking them seriously,' she continued, 'but as this situation is spiraling and affecting people I love, I have to speak up'.She went on to confirm that her partner of eight years Guillaume Canet is the father of her unborn child.'Firstly, many years ago, I met the man of my life, father of our son and of the baby we are expecting. He is my love, my best friend, the only one that I need.''Secondly to those who have indicated that I am devastated, I am very well thank you. This crafted conversation isn't distressing.A source told PageSix that Jolie 'hired a private eye because she felt that he was fooling around with her on the set, and it turns out, he was. And that was the final straw'.Cotillard went on: 'And to all the media and the haters who are quick to pass judgment, I sincerely wish you a swift recovery.'She concluded her message by wishing Brad and Angelina Jolie well.'Finally, I do very much wish that Angelina and Brad, both whom I deeply respect, will find peace in this very tumultuous moment. With all my love, Marion'.Cotillard stars alongside Pitt in the upcoming spy thriller Allied and their onscreen sexual chemistry has been described as 'electric'.'Brad and Marion immediately had the utmost respect for each other, so once they delved into their characters, their chemistry was electric,' he told People Magazine back in August.'It was crucial for Brad and Marion to not only begin rehearsing together before the shoot, but they also spent a lot of time developing their characters with the director, Robert Zemeckis,' he added. 'By the time we got to set, it was really amazing to see these characters already feel lived-in and real.'The pair play a information officer and French Resistance fighter who fall in love. They began filming the movie in England in February this year and also travelled to Casablanca and the Canary Islands for shoots. Jolie filed for divorce from Pitt on Monday for 'the health of her family', two years after they wed at their French estate Chateau Miraval.The actress filed papers citing irreconcilable differences as the reason for the split and asked for physical custody of the couple's three biological children as well as their three adopted children - Maddox, 15, Pax, 12, and Zahara, 11.A source close to the couple said that the Maleficent star was upset over the way Pitt was parenting their brood and 'fed up' with his use of weed and alcohol, as well as anger issues. 'Brad s absolutely working his butt off right now and the kids rarely see him, a source told OKMagazine.com. 'He leaves for the set before they wake and comes home after they ve gone to bed.'Radar Online revealed Tuesday that the actress had also allegedly fired the family's nanny several months ago for what she regarded as 'flirting' with her husband.