Lamu Governor Issa Timamy has said he does not regret ditching the Jubilee Party for ANC, which is led by his political mentor Musalia Mudavadi.He said he has the residents support and blessing, and dismissed those who claim ditching JP is political suicide.The governor made the comments shortly after he publicly disagreed with Lamu East MP Athman Shariff during an event on Faza Island over his decision to join ANC.In July, both Timamy and Shariff, who were elected on the UDF party ticket, announced they would leave the party to join Jubilee Party.On September 10, members of the dissolved UDF joined Jubilee. But later in the same month, many former members decamped to ANC.On October 3, Timamy said he would rather belong to a party where all members are regarded as equals, which is not the case in JP. He then announced he would join Amani party and use its ticket to defend his post next year.MP Shariff told Timamy that Lamu residents would be better off if all its leaders joined Jubilee Party.He urged residents to vote for JP candidates so they can live the good life. With Jubilee, all our problems will be over. All we need to do is support them. It s unfortunate that as leaders we seem confused about what to do. But just for the record, Jubilee is the way and any other party is a lie, Shariff said.Vote for leaders, not partiesTimamy dismissed the remarks and urged residents to vote for leaders based on their performance and not their political party.He asked them to double-check the ability of individual leaders before voting for them. We don t focus on political parties. If the leader is fit, he can go to any party. In other areas, leaders elected on the Jubilee ticket did not deliver. I have my nomination ticket in my pocket and I am waiting for 2017. Even if elections are called tomorrow, I m ready, Timamy said.The governor said that in the March 4, 2013, general election, residents did not vote for parties but for individuals.He said he and Shariff were elected on the UDF ticket, woman representative Shakilla Abdalla on the Wiper ticket, Senator Abu Chiaba on the TNA ticket and Lamu West MP Julius Ndegwa on a Kenya National Congress ticket.