Senator Ben Paul Njoroge swivels on the his chair. IEBC is bad news, he says, shaking his head in disapproval. They need to go home like yesterday. They wasted my six months. For a senator who is from the inner sanctum of Jubilee Coalition it would appear strange that he can openly share his distaste for the election managers in a fashion similar to that of opposition, Cord.His views are personal, though; far removed from what the Opposition is crusading.Njoroge says IEBC rigged him out of the Senate even though his name was the first on the list of nominees. They refused to gazette me as the duly nominated senator and went for the person who was second on the list. They altered the list when they have no authority to do so. Angered by the decision, Njoroge chose to fight for his rights in the courts I had to get recourse in the court for a mistake that should never have happened, he said, revelling in the judgment that nullified Linet Nyakeriga s nomination in 2013. It came at great cost. I had to fork out a Sh500,000 fee for filing my application in the High Court and another similar amount as legal fees. Njoroge s political career goes back into the late 1980s when he joined pro-reform forces to demand the return of multi-party politcs.He unsuccessfully contested the Naivasha parliamentary seat on Mwai Kibaki s Democratic Party ticket in 1992. I lost because of the discrimination against people living with disabilities that was prevalent at that time, he says.In 1993, he won a three-year maintenance tender at Safari Park. He then later opened up a slaughterhouse in Njiru township which he managed until 1997 when the political bug bit him again.Last week the legislator triggered a national storm when he warned Deputy President William Ruto on his 2022 presidential bid. I have nothing personal against the DP. I have no ill-feeling towards him. All I am doing is to warn him to be wary of the politicians who are cheating him that the Kikuyu vote is intact for 2022. Njoroge plans to return to the Senate in 2017.However he wants to get another nomination. His future plans include being a running mate for a presidential candidate in the 2022 general election.******1955: Born in Naivasha1970: started schooling at Ororien Primary and later Joytown Special School. He completed his primary school in 1978.1979: Joined Ravals and later Thika High schools for his O levels which he completed in 1982. 1992: Contested the Naivasha parliamentary seat and lost.2003: Appointed to the Board of People Living with Disabilities.2005: Joined the No camp that campaigned against the famous Wako Draft constitution. 2010: He was in the William Ruto No campaign that opposed the ratification of the new constitution. I was in the team even though I never met Ruto .2013: Nominated to the senate by TNA.*****2016: There is a group of politicians from the Kikuyu community who are misleading Deputy President William Ruto that the community s votes are his for the taking in 2022. These MPs are those who line up in his office every morning to receive money in exchange of this false hope. The MPs are diverting the DP s attention from weighty national issues and what he is supposed to do for the people of Rift valley. The DP has become a slave of these politicians and you can see going all over talking about 2022 when we still have 2017 to think about... The relationship these MPs and Ruto has made it difficult for the Kikuyu community to effectively engage other communities. We have marginalized ourselves. 2016: Under the Jubilee administration people living with disabilities have enjoyed a golden generation. There is a monthly special transfer fund that benefits them. Previously they were never considered for government procurement. Today they 30 per cent of all government tenders set aside for them. I sponsored a Bill that reserved 5 per cent of public service jobs to the people living disabilities. 