In July 2001, then President Daniel Moi introduced to the world a 41-year-old nominated MP, who was also Local Government minister. He was not influential in the party ranks, neither did he possess the visible qualities of a President in the making at least in the eyes of Kanu members who felt they deserved to be its flagbearers.Against the wave of resentment and opposition, Moi looked beyond the man s physical appearance and saw the heart of a warrior. He saw a fighter; a mediator who would unite a nation badly fragmented; one who would reverse the politics of negative ethnicity. Moi must have seen a man who would look tyranny and imperialism in the eye and defeat them; his father s son. He probably saw the spirits of the founding fathers Tom Mboya, Jomo Kenyatta, Dedan Kimathi and Jaramogi Oginga Odinga, to name but a few residing in the young fellow. Whatever else he saw, Moi certainly knew that Uhuru Kenyatta would midwife a better Kenya.Uhuru has proved to be his own man. He accepted the role of opposition leader with zeal after conceding defeat in the 2002 general election. He did not whine or accuse Narc of rigging. In fact, he has never claimed to have his elections stolen; not even when he lost a parliamentary seat to the little known Moses Muihia in Gatundu in 1997.Uhuru joined the opposition movement and out of belief and a value system supported the Orange (No) side during the 2005 referendum. He went against his community, which overwhelmingly voted for the constitution. Uhuru was not afraid of being ostracised by his community, he stood up for his own principles without worrying too much about the repercussions.However, it was after the disputed 2007 presidential election that Uhuru passed the crucible of leadership. That was when it became clear that the country s leadership mantle would one day end up on his shoulders. He was a voice of reason in a sea of chaos. Uhuru went against the grain of hate and tribal vitriol that marked one of the toughest elections in our country s history. He had the option of joining the bandwagon of hatemongers but he did not. He chose instead to preach peace to his community, which was hurting from unwarranted attacks based on negative ethnicity politics.Despite this he was charged alongside a friend, who was to later become his deputy president, and four others at the ICC. In the 2013 elections he looked beyond the shambolic cases and united two communities that no one believed could work together. He ran a presidential campaign that upset the general election s outcome and formed one of the most inclusive governments in recent years. Even though his name was dragged through the mud in the ICC cases, he remained steadfast and was vindicated. His innocence was broadcast to the world.For the three years Jubilee has been in power, new roads are being built and old ones expanded, the standard gauge railway will be ready by June next year, the Last Mile Connectivity Project is lighting homes and changing lives. Our GDP is growing; Kenya is now a preferred destination for conference tourism; we are respected by our peers and are looked upon to give direction to Africa.The Uwezo Fund is restoring the dignity of our young people. The Huduma Centres have expedited the process of acquiring vital documents and registering businesses. Kenya has joined the league of major economies.But his biggest accomplishment has been uniting the country. That this is his legacy. He intends to ensure that Kenyans, regardless of where they come from, their skin colour, ethnicity, age, region and all the artificial barriers that have been used to divide them, unite as one nation.