Steve Tikolo, former player and immediate national cricket team coach, makes his highly anticipated return to Nairobi Gymkhana, a ground he set alight with national and international records as a player today at the helm of Uganda national cricket team.Many Kenyan fans will have mixed feelings when the man hailed as the country s greatest player will now be scheming to derail Kenya s quest for a whitewash of the Cricket Kenya Quadrangular Series that also involves Qatar and Saudi Arabia.From the opponents dugout, Tikolo who was appointed Uganda head coach in May after being shown the door by Cricket Kenya, will be looking at how he will stop the squad he built before he fell out with Kenyan authorities. It s a match like any other match. The Ugandan players are ready to express themselves. Beating Kenya is one of the targets we set before getting here. I am sure the players will put their best foot forward and fight to the end, Tikolo said.Despite suffering two losses to Qatar and Saudi Arabia, Tikolo is full of praise of his players who he says are hungry for success . We lost while fighting in both matches. I have to give that to the players. They have shown the character of winners and I hope they will have the same spirit in the match, he added.Kenya have had a good run winning their opening match by 117 runs over Qatar before embarking on a revenge mission against Saudi Arabia registering a 16-runs victory.Kenya s success in both matches has been as a result of good perfomances from the top order batsmen. Against Qatar, Irfan Karim was brilliant with the bat scoring a century with half centuries coming from Rushab Patel and Nelson Odhiambo.There was similar contribution against Saudi Arabia where Rakep Patel missed a century by seven runs and Karim scored half a century.Alex Obanda and Karim have given Kenya good starts and its likely that Tikolo s successor, Thomas Odoyo, will give the opening slot to them once again.Odoyo might bring Collins Obuya back to the side after he was rested for the Saudi Arabia match. Rushab, Nelson Mandela and skipper Rakep Patel will be entitled to control the middle order.Kenya top batters will come up against Uganda s opening bowlers who have struggled in efforts to give their team a good start in both matches.Despite failing to sparkle, Kenya s opening pair of Nehemiah Odhiambo and Elijah Otieno will be relied on as Kenya seek an early breakthrough.Mandela has been outstanding and a lot will be expected from him before the spin trio of Rakep, Shem Obado and Rushap zooms into action.Saudi Arabia and Qatar will play at Nairobi Jafferys.