Karan Kaul scored his maiden NPCA 2015 Super League to but failed to prevent Nairobi Gymkhana from suffering a seven-wicket thrashing away to title contenders Swamibapa at Nairobi Jafferys on Sunday.Swamibapa s win a comeback after double losses to leaders Stray Lions and third placed Kanbis saw them retain their second place with three round of matches to go.Kaul, the son of Cricket Kenya treasurer Ravi Kaul, did his bit with a well-made hundred that led his side to 195 in 46 overs. The right-handed batsman s 101 came from 129 balls and included seven boundaries and two sixes.Karan was one of the two batsmen, who fell to Lameck Onyango who ended on 2 for 37 from eight overs. He was ninth out, with the Gymkhana s score on 187 when Onyango had him caught.It was not a good show with the bat for the visitors as all other batsmen contributed only 87 with Lucas Oluoch scoring 34 runs. Swamibapa strengthened their position by reclaiming the league title in 30.2 overs, thanks to a century opening stand between Maurice Ouma and Alex Obanda.Obanda scored 64 runs while Ouma contributed 68 before Raj Savala claimed their wickets. Savala went on to pick his third wicket when he had Saumil Patel caught on his way to 3 for 45 in six overs.Stray Lions flirted with danger before overcoming a spirited Ruaraka Sports Club by four wickets in an NPCA Super League match on Sunday to boost their hopes with tenth victory.Hiren Varaiya s team were dire straits when they lost six wickets for 37 runs in their chase for 117 before scrapping to victory half-way through the inning.Satyajsingh Gohil, Dhruvrajsinh Vaja and Purshotam Vekaria each took two wickets as Stray Lions struggled to deal with the their determined bowling performance.Tanmay Mishra and Abraham Vadada put on 47 for the first wicket. From 47 for no, Stray Lions were 74 for 3 when debutant Salman Ahmed was caught behind on 5.Few balls later, Vadada was on his way back to the pavilion when he was brilliantly caught behind. Collins Obuya and Praveen Kumar fell in quick succession to leave their side on 84 for 6. Ngoche and Mota both hit a six and two fours to take the game away from the hosts in a five overs stand.Earlier Stray Lions bowlers had impressed after the hosts elected to bat.Mota struck with the last ball of the first over as Hitesh Varsani s stumps were disturbed. Chauhan and Karan Patel put on 25 in five overs as Mota got his second when he had Chauhan caught on five. At 27 for 3, Vekaria and Keyur Parmar doubled the scores and got their side to 54. The stand was broken by Maurice Odumbe who trapped Keyur on 11. Vekaria too fell to Odumbe s spin on 14. Mota and Obado linked up with four wickets in the middle before Odumbe got his third when he bowled top scorer Gohil on 39 to end on 116 all out.