Every election is, to some degree, a contest between the future and the past. And sometimes the two options are obvious enough. Consider the upcoming US presidential election. If Donald Trump wins, then that will mean a majority of the American voters are voting for a return of an imagined glorious past, for his slogan is Make America Great Again. Those tempted to dismiss Trump as too obnoxious to win were reminded of the force of this yearning for the past when, earlier this year, the Yes side of the Brexit vote won, compelling Britain to now begin the process of dismantling its deep links with the European Union. In Kenya too, we have much the same dynamic at work.President Uhuru Kenyatta promised us a shining future in which - thanks to the SGR - imports and exports would be swiftly transported between the port of Mombasa and various inland destinations at great speed. He promised a laptop for every schoolchild. He vowed he would take the country beyond the corruption and cronyism which Kenyans had more or less resigned themselves to. And so on. It is customary that when a Kenyan President seeking reelection has plainly failed to deliver on all the promises he made in the last campaign, his core supporters will easily overlook the broken promises, and argue that His Excellency tried his best. While those who had never expected to see him win are usually far less forgiving.And so it is right now we find the opposition leaders arguing that Kenyans have been betrayed by the President and his failed government. While the President s men, using State House itself as a backdrop, regularly roll out sophisticated public relations events, intended to showcase what has been achieved over the last four years. The opposition s perspective is that the Jubilee government promised us a brilliant future, and instead returned us to the darkest days of the past.And that President Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto came to power promising to make all things digital, but instead took us back to the grim days of the Daniel Moi era (late 1970s-2002 ): A period now considered to be a giant step backwards for Kenya as much in terms individual freedoms as in economic growth. Moi was your classic African dictator running the country as a personal fiefdom before he yielded to the winds of change and allowed for a return to multiparty democracy, which in turn paved the way for his peaceful exit from power. Political and economic stagnation is what Moi is remembered for. There was never any question of anything new or as we now say digital coming from him. So the comparison of the current Jubilee government with the Moi kleptocracy is no compliment.This point of view of course ignores the fact that our economic growth rates at present compare favourably with those of the Mwai Kibaki era ( 2002-13 ) which were years of unbounded personal liberties and record-breaking economic growth. But then you may have noticed that being an effective opposition leader requires complete blindness to the achievements of your political opponents who are in power. Indeed, any career in politics at all requires such willful blindness.This is best revealed by the routine accusations of the candidates seeking to defeat this governor, or that MP, at the ballot. There is, invariably, references to people languishing in poverty betrayed by elected leaders who have nothing to show, for the millions (or billions) that have been swallowed. One new twist in the upcoming election though, is that this will be the first time in Kenyan history, when the serving President, who is seeking reelection, is very much younger than the man considered to be, most likely, his key rival in the election. Kenyan presidential politics has in the past always featured a President (and in 2013, a Prime Minister) who was much older than his chief rival. It remains to be seen how an opposition candidate, older than the incumbent can argue that we need fresh blood when in fact the fresh blood is already in office.It remains to be seen how an opposition candidate, much older than the incumbent, can argue that we need fresh blood when in fact the fresh blood is already in office.