Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya has accused the Jubilee administration of withdrawing projects set to be implemented in areas that did not vote for it in 2013.He claimed that the said projects have been shifted to areas perceived to be friendly to the government of the day.The governor pointed out a Sh200 million project by the Belgium government which was to convert medical waste such as syringes and needles into energy.He said that the venture was meant for Kakamega county but has been moved to Bungoma "because it is friendly to the government"."When I was minister for planning, we negotiated a Sh5 billion programme for setting up incinerators in all provincial hospitals," he said. He said that a cabinet meeting in 2011 decided that all provincial hospitals will host the plants which were to produce electricity for use in the facilities. Oparanya said that the decision was taken since most hospitals did not have a mechanism to dispose used medical waste. "In Western, the plant was to be established at the Kakamega county general hospital but it has now been changed to Bungoma because we voted for opposition," Oparanya said. He said that the government had also gone slow on a Sh2 billion support for the construction of Kakamega county teaching and referral hospital."We feel that this is because Kakamega is hostile to Jubilee. I had asked the president for the support and he accepted," the governor said."He asked me to officially make a request in writing which I did. But when I followed up recently, health CS Cleopa Mailu told me he would be willing to assist but politics is a bad thing," he said. Oparanya made the sentiments at a public rally at Ebushitinji grounds after inspecting development projects in Butere on Friday. The event was attended by ICT PS Sammy Itemere and Ikolomani MP Bernard Shinali. Oparanya asked the government to respect that Kenya is a multi-party state and opposition cannot be wished way because it has a role. Shinali said that Kakamega has been sidelined in public appointments giving an example of chair of the Agricultural Finance Corporation.The position was held by the late former housing minister Soita Shitanda but has since been given to Bifwoli Wakoli from Bungoma. He said that seven parastatal heads are from Bungoma county at the expense of other counties in western Kenya.Read: Cartels slowing mega projects, says stateAlso read: State under pressure to show projects value