Kenya national golf team departs on Monday for the East African Challenge 2016 scheduled for October 24-29 in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Team Kenya joins four other countries from East Africa including perennial rivals Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda and hosts Ethiopia.The eight-man team consists of six senior and two juniors. The seniors were selected during qualifier held at Thika Greens while the two juniors Nyali golfer Agil Is Hag and Mutahi Kibugu have been granted a wild card. The team will be accompanied by the Kenya Golf Union chairman Muchau Githiaka, vice chairman Richard Wanjala and team coach Brian Njoroge.Kenya has won the trophy a record 12 times since 1999. KGU boss Githiaka exuded confidence that the national team would record impressive results. The team has been training for the last one week under the leadership of coach, Brian Njoroge and is ready to beat the defending champions Uganda, he said.The regional challenge event remains one of the most prestigious competitions in East Africa. It was first played in 1999 in Kenya and it involves the members of East Africa community. The format involves 4 rounds of golf with singles, foursomes, four ball better ball and final singles. Each country has eight players.Team Members: Alfred Nandwa (Railways), Daniel Nduva (Nyali ), John Lejirma (Golf Park), Edwin Mudanyi (Vet Labs), Simon Njogu (Great Rift Valley), Robinson Owiti (Vet Labs), AgilI Is Hag (Nyali) and Mutahi Kibugu (Muthaiga).Elsewhere, defending champion John Kariuki from Limuru Country Club and current Goty leader Kenneth Bollo (Royal Nairobi) are among the male amateur golfers headed for the 2016 Kenya Amateur Strokeplay Championship starting tomorrow at the par 72 Thika Sports Golf Course The 72-hole event, which counts towards the Kenya Golf Union Golfer of The Year (GOTY) series and the world amateur ranking, has attracted a field of 61 players.Karichu, who is the 2016 Karen Challenge winner hopes to chalk up another victory in the series. Also drawn is handicap 5, Rishi Bali from Bombay Presidency Golf Club in Mumbai. Other golfers eyeing the trophy are include youth players Agil Is Hag, Daniel Nduva (Nyali) and Sigona s Mohit Mediaratta.Play commences with 18 holes being played tomorrow, 36 holes on Friday and 18 holes being on Saturday. The winner of the event will automatically get a slot to play in the Barclays Kenya Open 2017