Kajiado Governor David Nkedianye has asked voters to choose personalities, not parties, in the 2017 general election.Nkedianye said party euphoria could lead to drastic results - the election leaders with no interest in the people's affairs. I know the people of this county will unanimously elect me because I am a performer. What remains now is for you to elect for me leaders with integrity, he said.He spoke at Olooseos Primary School in Keekonyokie ward, Kajiado West subcounty, on Thursday morning.Nkedianye said he has been pestered by many to join Jubilee Party but said he has not done anything wrong to warrant a move from ODM. Parties will not take us to heaven. Jubilee Party and Cord are just vessels that take us to leadership positions," he said."I have been in ODM and have performed pretty well. Follow party euphoria and you will dearly regret it at the end of that election."He hinted that he may cross over to a party of his choice when the time is right.The Governor criticised Keekonyokie MCA George Sunkuyia and his Olkeri counterpart Onesmus Ngogoyo for allegedly disrespecting him. You two have no respect for my office. You do not give me respect at all. Your verbal diarrhea will not take you anywhere," hetold them."You cannot purport to be the people bringing development to your wards and yet it is the Governor who makes it possible."Sunkuyia, who had spoken before Nkedianye had claimed he and another county government official had planned to finish him with a machete.The MCA claimed the two top officials had made his work impossible as they were sleeping on development money.But the Governor told him he was being childish. How can a grown man claim in public that I sat down with another woman in my office and planned to finish him with a machete? This is childish talk, he said.Ngogoyo, who is a sworn opponent of the Governor's, has on various occasions exchanged words with him at public forums.The two MCAs, who are Jubilee Party members, are keen on seeing Nkeidanye replaced after the August 8 poll.