Man United Vs Leicester, Today 230pmMy Prediction: Red Devils......2 Foxes.... 2This will be such a tricky affair given that both these teams are performing below expectations this term. Ironically, it s the champions versus the team that looked most likely to win the title this season but Leicester have only won two out of five matches this season; while Man United have lost their last two league matches; to Man City and surprisingly to Watford. Leicester, however, did do well last weekend getting a 3-0 win over Burnley although after a good start against Chelsea in the EFL Cup; they gave up that lead to crash out of the tournament. United though were victorious over Northampton in the League Cup. I don t quite know what s wrong at United though since they have a squad to die for; while the Foxes are clearly missing N golo Kante. This is actually going to be a very interesting tie that I m betting will end all square. Liverpool Vs Hull City, Today 5pm,My Prediction: Reds...2 Tigers...1Liverpool are behind Arsenal in the standings. I just thought I d get that very valuable piece of information out there given that everyone is raving about how brilliant the Reds are this season. Yes it s only on goal difference but if the league ended now they would be 6th and Arsenal wait for it would be 4th. That s funny yes! Anyway the Reds walked all over Chelsea in the league a week ago and their performance was very impressive. Jurgen Klopp seems to have found his winning combination and I like that all players in all positions are rising to the occasion. Yes they were accused of playing a somewhat defensive in the second half but when you re 2-0 against Chelsea at Stamford Bridge at half time; it s only smart to seal the back. The Reds looked good midweek in the EFL Cup but they were only playing Derby County. But the goals are coming in thick and fast. Hull City started the season well with two wins out of two; but they have gone on to lose two of their last three games. Sad really but I guess that s the difference between a top side and a mid table team. Arsenal thrashed Hull 4-1 last weekend but sadly, I predict that they will lose again this weekend.Arsenal Vs Chelsea, Today 7:30pm,My Prediction: Gunners..3 Blues...1I am really looking forward to this game because I can t wait to see the improved Arsenal against a top side. The Arsenal that lost to Liverpool on the opening weekend didn t have Lucas Peres and Granit Xhaka, who only came on late in the game. We weren t as tight an outfit as we are now and as confident as Beyonce! The Arsenal I have watched in action over the past two weeks or so can beat any team right now; while the Chelsea I have watched has been dodgy. They needed some brilliance from former Gunner Cesc Fabregas to keep their participation in the EFL Cup alive after failing to see off Leicester in regular time; while they just couldn t match the vigour of Liverpool last weekend. Antonio Conte has a good team but so does Arsene Wenger. I just hope our old man starts his best possible team as he does have a habit of playing around with a winning combination. I have a good feeling about this.