Police in Murang a have arrested a 38-year-old man for allegedly sodomising 19 school boys aged between 8 and 15.The suspect, Enoch Mwangi, was on Saturday rescued by police from an angry mob that was baying for his blood after claims that one of the boys had tested HIV positive. According to the victims, the suspect lured them with money to his house in Igikiro village, Kamahuha, Makuyu sub-county before sexually assaulting them.Read: Man charged with sodomising 3 boysThe ordeals were revealed when a teacher at the school where eight of the boys schooled noticed their sudden change of behaviour and deteriorating health."I took one of the boy s to a nearby health facility and upon examination it was revealed that he had been sodomized. We forced them to explain who was responsible and they led us to the suspect s house and we had him arrested, the teacher who spoke to the Star on condition of anonymity said.One of the boys said the suspect threatened to slash him to death if he disclosed the ordeal to anyone. He met us as we were going to fetch firewood and gave me Sh50. Later in the day he called me to his house and demanded his money back but I told him I had misplaced it. He sent me to get some jelly at a nearby shop and on returning he sexually harassed me and warned that he would kill me if I told anyone, the boy said.Also read: Murang'a businessman on the run after sodomising 14-year-old boyThe boy's mother had a hard time coming to terms with the fact that her son could be infected with the HIV virus. My son s life has been turned upside down by that beast. The whole village is now worried about their children. The man should not be confined in a prison to enjoy government resources, he should be hanged, cried the mother.Residents called on the police to expedite investigations and charge the suspect in court or 'hand him over to us for instant punishment'. Let them dare release the suspect and he will have to face our wrath together with his family. They have no idea the pain we are going through because of our sons, one of the residents said.The locals claimed that the suspect had previously been arrested for over similar allegations but was released under mysterious conditions by police officers at Saba Saba police station.They claimed soon after his release, the suspect sexually molested two boys at Kaha-ini trading center and vanished, only to resurface three months ago.The residents said that Mwangi s wife and his four children left him a year ago after he tried to sodomize her. He is a disgrace to this village and our community. We don t want to ever see his face. The authorities must ensure that justice for the children prevails, said resident George Mmiring u.Mwangi is locked up at Maragua Police Station waiting to be arraigned in court on Monday. He will also undergo tests to ascertain whether he has HIV positive, said a police officer at Saba Saba police station.