Luo Council of Elders chairman Opiyo Otondi collapsed on Sunday during installation of Odak Mbaka as the council s chairman for Homa Bay county.The ceremony took place in Nyabola village, Kasipul constituency.Otondi collapsed after handing Mbaka leadership instruments, which included a walking stick, a rake, a cap and a whisk. We give him these traditional items to show he is an elder whom our community recognises. Elders from Homa Bay county elected him and the council approved the election, Otondi said.He was rushed to Matata Hospital in Oyugis town. Area MP Oyugi Magwanga took over the rest of the ceremony.It was not immediately clear why Otondi collapsed. In his remarks, he criticised elected leaders from the community who wash their dirty linen in public in the name of politics. Guard your mouths'Otondi said the politicians are damaging the community s reputation. You cannot use vulgar language against a fellow elected leader on the pretext of doing politics. We must guard our mouths and respect each other to ensure we don t taint the community s image, he said.Otondi urged Luo Nyanza politicians to remain united and focus on improving the people s living standards. I hope our people will judge you on the basis of development, not the way one engaged the other in public spats, he said.Magwanga warned politicians against meddling in the council s affairs. He said they recognise Otondi as the bona fide elders chairman and those he crowns as county leaders. Mbaka has been given the mantle so we don t expect some politicians to organise the installation of a different elder for Homa Bay. We know Otondi as the bona fide chairman because Raila also recognises him, he said.(+) New chairman pledges to unite the communityMbaka pledged to unite the community. I understand the challenges we undergo as a community, but through consultations, I will ensure we walk together, he said. Elders from Siaya, Migori and Kisumu counties attended the function.The installation of Otondi as chairman in 2010 caused divisions among elders, with Riaga Ogalo saying he was the legitimate chairman. A group of elders termed Cord leader Raila Odinga s presence at the installation ceremony absurd and dictatorial.