One of Hollywood s high profile marriages is over! Movie star Angelina Jolie has filed for divorce from fellow screen star husband Brad Pitt. Already there is speculation that a tabloid-friendly, child-unfriendly custody battle may ensue over their six children, but a source close to them asserted that both sides want a cordial breakup. Other than the fame of the people involved, this is like so many other divorces, a source told CNN. The divorce filing may however tell a very different story.Jolie and Pitt got married in 2014 but their relationship became the subject of speculation in 2004, when they co-starred in Mr. &amp; Mrs. Smith. At the time, Pitt was married to actress Jennifer Aniston. In January 2005, Pitt and Aniston announced they were splitting up and Aniston filed for divorce a few months later.In April 2005, photos surfaced of Pitt, Jolie and her adopted son Maddox in Kenya. Jolie later adopted daughter Zahara from Ethiopia and in early 2006, announced that she and Pitt were expecting a baby. Shortly thereafter, Pitt was granted the right to legally adopt Maddox and Zahara. Their daughter Shiloh was born in May 2006 and son Pax was adopted from Vietnam in March 2007. Jolie gave birth to twins Vivienne and Knox in July 2008.The couple announced their engagement in 2012 and Pitt was there to support Jolie in 2013 when she underwent a preventive double mastectomy. Jolie said at the time she underwent the surgery following the discovery that she carried a mutation of the BRCA1 gene which greatly increased her risk of getting cancer.In 2014, they were married in a small, private ceremony in a chapel at Ch teau Miraval in the village of Correns. The following year, Jolie once again made headlines in regards to her health when she had her ovaries and fallopian tubes removed to guard against cancer. The couple talked to NBC s Tom Brokaw in 2015 about their marriage, her health struggles and working together as they promoted their film By the Sea.Jolie also wrote and directed the film about a couple in a troubled marriage. Jolie said the characters relationship was far from hers and Pitt s. I m counting on the audience to know that if it was close to us at all we could never make this film, Jolie said. It s because we are actually very, very stable and these aren t our issues. 