Snapchat has been in the country for close to 3 years now.The first time Snapchat hit the streets of Nairobi, we received numerous backlash from western nations who did not expect to see an African nation using the site.The app has become quite common among social media users in Kenya and also we now have some of the world leaders for instance the United States president, Barack Obama, who uses the site under the username WHITE HOUSE to give information and happenings around the white house and the president himself during travels.So how good are you at using Snapchat? Most people know only the common features of the application. Here are some of the few hidden features of the application.You can use two filters at the same timeWell if you cannot be able to select between a geo filter and filters provided by snapchat, you can easily add a filter of your choice. To use the combination, simply swipe over your photo as normally as you would then hold down on the screen with one finger and carefully swipe over the photo with another finger to add the second filter.Bring back old lenses by changing the date on your phone.Snapchat swaps in new lenses each day. Sometimes you may use a filter that you love then come the next day it is not there but has been replaced by another one. Well here is how you can get them back. You can revert to previous lenses that have disappeared by changing the date in your device's main settings. If you are using Android, go to settings--&gt;date &amp;time and uncheck -automatic date and time-. For those on iOS, go to Settings &gt; General &gt; Date &amp; Time and turn off -set automatically-. From there, choose the date that had the lenses you want to use again. Once you're done snapping with the desired lense, change your settings back to automatic to avoid other apps that require date settings to run from crashing.Change the name that your friends see during chatYou can easily view a friend's Snapchat details from within a chat. Tap the hamburger menu in the upper-left hand corner to get a quick look at your contact's Snapchat score and Snapcode. You can also edit the contact's name, block them if they are pestering you or remove the conversation completely.Secure your account with two-step verification.Security is a major concern in the current days. Cases of hacking have been increasing with the advancements in technology. It is important that you secure your social accounts to avoid incidences. To add an extra layer of security to your Snapchat account, enable login verification. Once you do so, you won't be able to log in to your account from a new device until you enter a code sent to you via SMS. To do this, go to the app's settings and select "login verification" to set this up. You can also change the number associated with the account, if you prefer to get verification codes sent to an alternate number.