A North West community has been caught up in a bloody feud while the government drags its feet over a 2014 report into a disputed chieftainship.The turf war between incumbent chief James Ramokoka and Bosman Ramokoka over the chieftainship of Ramokokastad formed part of the Mafereka Commission on Traditional Leadership Disputes and Claims Report, which was set up by the North West government.Since the report s finalisation, a third claimant, George Ramokoka Mokoka, has joined the dispute. He claims his eldest uncle s son, Nathaniel Ramokoka, is the rightful heir. The report is yet to be released, despite the commission having submitted it to the department of co-operative governance and traditional affairs two years ago. It is now on Premier Supra Mahumapelo s desk.Half an hour from opulent Sun City along a dirt road is the village of Ramokokastad. Its residents live in constant fear while the Ramokokas fight for power. This issue has dragged on for years and it s not about money. It s about controlling this village &mdash; yet we are the ones living in fear. Someone will die soon, says one resident.Another resident says: The burning and the beatings have torn this community apart. Everyone lives in fear that they might be next. He points to the traditional council office that was burned late last year. For a year now the villagers can t get services. When we need proof of address from the traditional leaders we can t get it. Just days after the council office was set on fire, a community hall was also torched. Then, on the other side of the village in the hills, James s four-bedroom house and his mother s house were set alight.The village was just starting to come to terms with last year s violence when three people close to James were accused of trying to set alight George s lavish house in the village.A police source says a gang of men arrived at the Mogwase police station, with three men in tow. They said the three, who were brutally beaten, had vandalised George s house so they must be arrested. The only proof they could produce was an orange Salomon sneaker [which they said] had left footprints at the house, said the officer.But the account by Freddie Ramokoka (George s cousin) of the event differs. On the evening of September 2, he was kidnapped from his house by six men, according to a statement he made, which the Mail &amp; Guardian has seen. He says the men beat him and dragged him to a nearby bush where they continued to torture me with spanners and sticks , saying that he had burned George s house and that he should implicate the chief s younger brother, Mogomotsi. I did and they took me to George s house where [they had] two of my friends [including Mogomotsi]. George instructed people to beat us in sight of many onlookers. He kicked me a lot, reads Freddie s statement.The police source said one of the three men was sent to hospital because his injuries were really bad. And the other, I think Freddie, was limping very badly. It is believed the three fled to Pretoria once they were released on bail, after a police officer advised them that they were no longer safe in Ramokokastad.Freddie and his friends said they could not comment because the matter was sub judice. But he did say he was innocent. I know I did nothing wrong because every time George kicked [Mogomotsi], he said: Your grandfather stole the chieftaincy from mine. Freddie added that the truth will be told in court .George claims he is the victim. Yes, I was charged with assault, but not kidnapping, and it s all wrong. He says the night his house was doused with petrol he found the culprits by tracking their footprints. I drove to his [Freddie s] house and asked him about his Salomon pair of takkies. He accompanied me to my house, said George.He added that when residents heard that Freddie had confirmed the chief had paid him to set the house alight, people battered the gates and dragged Freddie into the streets. But earlier in his account, George said Freddie was inside the house when he made his confession.Colonel Sabatha Mokgwabone said that in the past two years Mogwase station has registered various cases related to members of the Ramokoka lineage. The cases include arson, attempted arson, assault, grievous bodily harm and kidnapping.