Air pollution kills 20&nbsp;000 people in South Africa every year, costing the economy nearly R300-million. This is according to new research from the World Bank. &nbsp; The research, Air Pollution: Strengthening the Economic Case for Action, concluded that air pollution kills 5.5-million people each year, making it responsible for one in every 10 deaths worldwide. That data comes from the World Health Organisation. Five million deaths a year make air pollution the fourth leading cause of premature deaths in the world. Only smoking, obesity and dietary issues kill more people. Writing in the research, lead author Urvashi Narain, said: The scale of the problem is truly daunting. In terms of cost, the bank calculated that premature deaths cost the world economy R3-trillion in lost work days alone. Those are people that are too sick to go to work, mostly from chest problems such as asthma. The impact of air pollution is, however, much greater when all the costs are included. Besides the cost of missing work, people also have to spend money on staying healthy by buying things such as asthma medication. This cost is also carried by the state. By World Bank calculations, the total cost of this to the world economy is R70-trillion a year. Worst-hit are developing countries, according to the researchers. Over 90% of premature deaths attributed to air pollution happened in these countries, where the same percentage of the population are exposed to dangerous levels of air pollution . The research looked at air pollution between 1990 and 2013, comparing the impacts of pollution in those two years. Air pollution is not just a health risk but also a drag on development. By causing illness and premature death, air pollution reduces the quality of life. By causing loss of productive labour, it also reduces incomes in those countries. Developing countries &ndash; whose rapidly growing economies translate into more pollution from coal-fired power stations and new industry &ndash; have borne the brunt of it. According to the report, 87% of the world s population lives in areas where the air pollution exceeds the World Health Organisation s safe levels. Old people and the poorest are disproportionately affected. The poor are more likely to live and work in polluted environments, but they are less able to avoid exposure or self-protect. The researchers said that this part of the population is then stuck, too sick to work and unable to afford medication. The bank concluded: Air pollution is a challenge that threatens basic human welfare, damages natural and physical capital, and constrains economic growth. &nbsp; The same logic follows in South Africa. The apartheid regime put poor, non-white people downwind of industrial sites. In its 2014 investigation titled Slow Poison: Air pollution, public health and failing governance, nongovernmental group Groundwork said: People are still polluted and made sick by this pollution. Writing in that report, the group s head Bobby Peek said: The blueprint for a black neighbourhood was a waste dumpsite, where waste from rich white neighbourhoods and dirty industry was dumped. 