The Decolonisation Foundation, led by former government spokesperson Mzwanele Jimmy Manyi,&nbsp;intends to lay two formal complaints against AngloGold Ashanti and its chairperson, Sipho Pityana.One complaint will relate to the company and its chair encouraging people to rise against the Honourable President of the Republic of South Africa . The other complaint will relate to the company s alleged failure to comply with the conditions of its mining licence. Pityana, an ANC stalwart and prominent businessperson, has publicly called for business to take a stand against poor governance of the ANC ruling party. He has also expressed an opinion that President Jacob Zuma is the root of many problems the country faces and should be removed from office. In a letter penned by the Mzwanele Manyi Decolonisation Foundation and addressed to Pityana (dated September 13&nbsp;2016), the foundation said AngloGold Ashanti was promoting anarchy and planting the seeds of regime change and accused the company and Pityana of having contravened certain provisions of the law in attempting to destabilise and compromise the security of the country. We plan to lay a formal complaint in this regard, the foundation said. Further, the foundation said that while AngloGold Ashanti was creating a false impression that the government is failing to provide services , it is failing to comply with its licence conditions in its failure to implement social and labour plans adequately. The foundation said it intended to lay a complaint to the Minister of Mineral Resources to enforce the relevant provisions of the Mineral and Petroleum Development Act.&#8216;I will not tolerate it&#8217; Pityana said he had not given the letter much credence. I think it s just somebody seeking attention. If he were to take it seriously, Pityana said, there are a number of things that are quite disturbing. It shows a lack of understanding of the rights of citizens to discuss their views freely and without threat of intimidation of any kind. Further, Pityana said the suggestion that the company operated illegally was unfounded, noting that both he and the company placed a great deal of emphasis on following the rule of law.&nbsp; There seems to be a notion that the power of the minister or of those in government can be used arbitrarily to shut up those who express views that are not favourable of the powers that be, said Pityana. I resent that, and as board chairman of AngloGold Ashanti, I will not tolerate it. Former government spokesperson&nbsp;Mzwanele Jimmy Manyi has been accused by the EFF&nbsp;of being a &#8216;Gupta agent&#8217; after he, on behalf of the Decolonisation Foundation,&nbsp;recently opened a case against former finance ministers Trevor Manuel and Nhlanhla Nene and current finance minister Pravin Gordhan at the office of the public protector.&nbsp;The case relates to R100-billion allegedly lost by Eskom and the public protector has been asked to investigate the dereliction of duty by National Treasury and these ministers.