Denel Asia, the controversial Gupta-linked joint venture that has seen&nbsp;open war between the state-owned arms company and the treasury, is necessary to get back into the lucrative Indian market, the company said this week even as that country actively courts South Africa. Denel Asia LLC was established in Hong Kong subsequent to finalising due approval processes , Denel chairperson Daniel Mantsha wrote in the company s 2016 annual report, which it published on Monday after inquiries by the Mail &amp; Guardian. The treasury has argued that the company, a joint venture with VR Laser Asia, in which Gupta business partner Salim Essa is the sole shareholder, was illegal for lack of authorisation. Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown banned Denel Asia from doing business until that claim was settled. That sequence of events makes no appearance in the company s extensive annual report, however. This article is only available to Mail & Guardian subscribers at present. Please login or&nbsp;consider subscribing. Visit our&nbsp;FAQs page for more information. Alternatively, check back in a few days when the article becomes freely available. Why can t I read this article? This article is considered premium content, which is available to subscribers only during the week of publication under the Mail & Guardian s content embargo system. It s our way of showing M&G subscribers that we appreciate their support. How does the content embargo system work? As a reader, you re able to view content according to the category you fall into:&nbsp; How much does a subscription cost? Go to&nbsp;M&G subscriptions for our various print and digital subscription offers. How do I share embargoed content on social media? Premium embargoed content becomes freely available on the Monday after the week of&nbsp;publication, but the link does not change so you can share it immediately or check back on Monday&nbsp;and share it then by clicking on the relevant social media button/s below the story.