&#8220;Culturally, when you would be given a name, you d be given the name of a hardworking person in the hopes that you would contribute to the society as they did, or even surpass them, says fine artist Mmakgabo Mmapula Helen Sebidi. Although Sebidi did not inherit her maternal grandmother s names, Mmakgabo, which means keeper of the flame , alludes to her progenitor s passion for vocational labour. Born in Marapyane near Hammanskraal, Sebidi learnt the foundations of mural-making, sewing, knitting, beadwork, wall plastering, smearing floors with cattle dung, calabash decoration and embroidery from her grandmother. More than the work itself, Sebidi s grandmother taught her the philosophical underpinnings of such labour and its importance in community building. Today, Sebidi s artwork is concerned with the restoration of moral values or, perhaps more accurately, the principles that shaped societies in precolonial Africa. Mmakgabo Helen Sebidi An exhibition of paintings and prints, on at the Michaelis Galleries at the University of Cape Town until October 14, largely draws on They Are Greeting, a collection of paintings, prints and sculpture that opened at the Everard Read gallery in May this year and which explores work emanating from her latter oeuvre. This phase of Sebidi s career is marked by a return to representational art but always with flourishes she picked up along the way. This article is only available to Mail & Guardian subscribers at present. Please login or&nbsp;consider subscribing. Visit our&nbsp;FAQs page for more information. Alternatively, check back in a few days when the article becomes freely available. Why can t I read this article? This article is considered premium content, which is available to subscribers only during the week of publication under the Mail & Guardian s content embargo system. It s our way of showing M&G subscribers that we appreciate their support. How does the content embargo system work? As a reader, you re able to view content according to the category you fall into:&nbsp; How much does a subscription cost? Go to&nbsp;M&G subscriptions for our various print and digital subscription offers. How do I share embargoed content on social media? Premium embargoed content becomes freely available on the Monday after the week of&nbsp;publication, but the link does not change so you can share it immediately or check back on Monday&nbsp;and share it then by clicking on the relevant social media button/s below the story.