The University of Zululand has become mired in yet another controversy after staff questioned whether a multimillion-rand printing contract awarded to Muzi Ntombela, the brother-in-law (sibali) of Higher Education Minister Blade Nzimande, was still valid.Staff are demanding to know why the university s management did not put the contract out on open tender in January despite its coming to an end in December 2015.According to the university s supply chain management policy, any contract for more than R200 000 or that exceeds one year should be open to competitive bidding.The deputy vice-chancellor for institutional support, Professor Neil Garrod, emailed staff members a notice on January 6 informing them that the campus print shop, which was previously run by Ntombela s company, Process Litho, had been closed on December 31 last year. No further print jobs should be sent to them. Any print works which cannot be accommodated on in-house machines should be sent to CMD [the communications and marketing department] for external sourcing, Garrod wrote.Process Litho was initially awarded the printing contract in 2012 to provide specialised printing services such as digital, litho, silkscreen and security printing.Then, on November 12 2013, the scope of that contract was extended for two years to include managing the printing centres and library printing at both the KwaDlangezwa and Richards Bay campuses at a monthly cost of R887 137.82.On top of this, Process Litho charged the university 54c for every A4-sized page printed in black and white and R6.73 for every A4 page printed in colour.Documents seen by the Mail &amp; Guardian reveal that Process Litho was paid R5.3 million in 2014 and R11.3 million last year.According to the minutes of a meeting of the special bid adjudication committee held on November 4 2013, the contract cannot be regarded as automatically renewable at any stage of the contract .University employees say Garrod was rebuked for sending the email to say that no further work should be sent to Process Litho.A staff member said that Garrod was also reprimanded by the vice-chancellor, Xoliswa Mtose, in February for suggesting that she wanted a hasty, closed-tender process for the printing contract. This article is only available to Mail & Guardian subscribers at present. Please login or&nbsp;consider subscribing. Visit our&nbsp;FAQs page for more information. Alternatively, check back in a few days when the article becomes freely available. Why can t I read this article? This article is considered premium content, which is available to subscribers only during the week of publication under the Mail & Guardian s content embargo system. It s our way of showing M&G subscribers that we appreciate their support. How does the content embargo system work? As a reader, you re able to view content according to the category you fall into:&nbsp; How much does a subscription cost? Go to&nbsp;M&G subscriptions for our various print and digital subscription offers. How do I share embargoed content on social media? Premium embargoed content becomes freely available on the Monday after the week of&nbsp;publication, but the link does not change so you can share it immediately or check back on Monday&nbsp;and share it then by clicking on the relevant social media button/s below the story.