Did you hear the one about the fire alarm salesperson who became an enemy of the South African state? I m referring to the decision of home affairs to bar entry to anti-gay American pastor Steven Anderson.Having spent quite a bit of time immersing myself in Anderson s tragicomic world this week, I can inform you that Anderson s church , located in a strip mall, is also the premises for his fire alarm installation business.It s little wonder that Anderson has to mix business with pleasure, given that he has nine children and counting. For Anderson, continuing to procreate like a New York rat is probably less a divine mandate than a desperate attempt to swell his congregation numbers. Attendance at his Faithful Word Baptist Church averages 150, of which about 30 are children.On Yelp, the user-generated guide to local businesses, the Faithful Word Baptist Church has attracted an average one-star rating. Sample comment: The state should shut this shit-hole down. Anderson specialises in the kind of insults that are normally hurled at adults by angry teenagers. If you re a homosexual, I hope you get brain cancer, he told a gay radio host a few years ago. He thinks women should keep completely quiet in church. Even if [women] were to have a question, they re not to ask that question in the church, he informed his congregation in 2014. This is presumably because he fears the questions that any woman would ask, like: Why are you such a creep? The pastor recently celebrated his 35th birthday. My online research reveals that they roasted three pigs and someone gave him a framed certificate to mark the fact that his church has been classified as an anti-gay hate group by the Southern Poverty Law Centre. I felt a bit sorry for him, getting such a shit present.Anderson s wife, who home-schools all her children, is a downright hilarious character. She makes and sells her own line of modest swimwear that makes burkinis look positively provocative. Mrs Anderson maintains a public blog titled Are They All Yours?!??, in reference to her alarming fertility. She believes birth control is the enemy of a happy marriage. The best way to show your wife you love her and affirm her as a competent wife and mother is to make her a mother again and again, she writes. That logic seems a bit circular to me, but what do I know?I m delighted that home affairs decided to keep the Andersons away, though I may not be in the majority. When News24 ran an online poll asking readers whether Anderson should be allowed into the country, 51% said yes, 32% said no and 17% said: As long as he behaves. It should be noted that in a poll on the same platform a few days previously, 83% of readers indicated that they believed their dog understands the words they say. There s one sense in which it s a pity that Anderson won t make it here, though: he would have found a number of like-minded churchmen waiting for him.Cape Town pastor Oscar Bougardt has repeatedly been in trouble with the South African Human Rights Commission for anti-gay comments made in public forums. I have come to the conclusion that Bougardt is a confused fellow. He commented approvingly on an article about Islamic State executing homosexuals: Isis, please come rid South Africa of homosexual curse. In an interview, when asked whether he would serve a gay person a meal, he replied: Of course! I am not a gay-hater! Speaking as a homosexual, allow me to decline your Sunday lunch invitation in advance, pastor.Bougardt has left a rousing statement of support on Anderson s blog. Believe me if I say homosexuals are in the minority, it begins. I literally don t know a single person who would dispute that, but maybe when you move in the paranoid circles of evangelical pastors you start to lose touch with numerical reality. These sodomite fruitcakes &mdash; I must say, that phrase made me chuckle &mdash; think that South Africa and the world only belongs to them. I am also under constant verbal attack for preaching the truth. Bougardt promises that another crusade in Cape Town is on the way to spread Anderson-adjacent ideas.When it comes to homophobic pastors in this country, though, Bougardt is the Coke light. The full-bodied real deal is Errol Naidoo from the Family Policy Institute, who managed to blame the Marikana massacre on gay people. Naidoo is a shiny, handsome fellow with lovely thick hair. He is so committed to his anti-gay agenda that he even attended the Pink Loerie Festival in Knysna a few years ago. The whole experience left me feeling physically ill, he later recorded. I know exactly what you mean, pastor. Whenever I ve been to the festival I ve needed a good few days to recover after. The reality is that Anderson must not lose sleep over South African souls. We don t need him here, preaching his hate. We have enough homegrown pastors to do that for us.