The Economic Freedom Fighters eliminated the political agenda in the move Parliament to Pretoria debate when it helped the Democratic Alliance wrest Tshwane from the ANC during the August 3 local government elections.Until then, some in the keep Parliament in Cape Town camp argued that the ANC might like to remove the high-profile legislature from a city that is controlled by the opposition. It s no longer a political issue, Ivor Sarakinsky at the Wits School of Governance told the Mail &amp; Guardian. The DA now controls both municipalities. With that out of the way, what is left in the debate that has Jacaranda and Mother City residents glaring at each other across the highveld? For starters, say Capetonians, it s the fact that moving Parliament will cost billions of rands in an economy that s barely avoiding a recession. The actual amount in question is out to tender. The government intends paying about R1-million to someone to conduct a feasibility study. To move Parliament to Pretoria would involve massive capital outlay in the short term, with any savings decades later, said former ANC MP Melanie Verwoerd. That is not something our already fragile economy can afford. Money is a valid concern and, according to Sarakinsky, it s one that will only worsen with time. If we did this 15 years ago, it would have been so much cheaper, he said. And if we look back in 15 years time we will say: Why didn t we do it then? Buildings are not going to get cheaper, land is not going to get cheaper, cement s not going to get cheaper. So the sooner you can do it the better. Tshwane Chamber of Commerce and Industry chief executive Piet du Toit agrees. The longer you wait, the more expensive it will be, he said. I would say if it fits within budget means, do it now. Sarakinsky said there are solutions that could mitigate building costs. One of the possibilities being discussed is that the pan-African Parliament could move into the existing parliamentary precinct. If that were to happen, the economic consequences would be much less. Government could charge rent to those who would move into the existing houses. That would immediately reduce construction costs in Gauteng. It would be quite a neat solution. Those opposed to moving Parliament say the costs of setting up in Tshwane would greatly outweigh the current costs of ferrying government officials back and forth between the two cities. But the pro-camp says these transport costs have been underestimated. It s clear that a lot of the people commenting on this have no idea how government works, said Sarakinsky. Often, large numbers of officials have to fly down to answer questions. If you re talking about Cabinet clusters or inter-ministerial committees, in some cases you could have 10 departments working together. You re talking about 60-plus people having to fly down for a single meeting. And, they point out, in addition to flights, the government foots the bill for hotel accommodation, travel costs to and from the airport and lost productivity for high-ranking officials while they travel. Really highly paid senior officials are losing half a day of work time every time they fly one way, said Sarakinsky. There are large numbers of people in transit at any given time. At busy times of the year it s like a mass exodus from Pretoria , said Du Toit. But, say Capetonians, the city is benefitting economically from housing the legislature. Commerce could suffer with a move, they say.The response of those in favour of Pretoria? Ag shame. The economic wellbeing of one city can t be presented at the expense of the fiscal wellbeing of the country as a whole, said Sarakinsky. That s the tail wagging the dog, which is ridiculous. According to Du Toit, it s time for Tshwane to get a piece of the commercial pie. We believe Cape Town is benefitting tremendously from the activities of Parliament. If it moves to Pretoria, that would help local caterers, the entertainment business, restaurants and shops. The Capital City Business Chamber says there are ideological reasons for a move. Next to Washington DC, Pretoria houses the highest number of embassies in the world, said the chamber s chief executive, Fanie du Plessis. If they move Parliament, our decision-makers will be able to engage directly with foreign representatives. In addition, said Du Plessis, as the economic hub of the country, Gauteng is best situated as the gateway to business into Africa. Combining the capitals could change [legislative] focus completely to economic growth instead of just making policy decisions . Chrys Haitas, executive director at the chamber, said South Africa had a responsibility to protect the legislature by moving it inland. You always secure the seat of the country, and how do you protect it? You put it towards the middle, she said. Having Parliament in Tshwane would make it more accessible to all, she added. Parliament and the capital city should always be central because of their physical reach. And then there s the social aspect of the debate: the effect on the families of those who are forced to shuttle back and forth between two homes. Johan Campher was a parliamentarian kid in the 1960s. I had to move to Cape Town with my parents every six months, he said. His primary school life was spent going back and forth between two schools. When I got to high school, there was no school in Cape Town that followed the same curriculum as the one in Pretoria, he said. So my parents left me here and asked the people who were renting our house to look after me as well. Moving up and down is definitely disruptive to the children. Despite the Mother City s obvious attractions, there are some lifestyle drawcards to the capital. Business consultant Mike Martin has lived in the Tshwane area for about 50 years. My father s family are originally from Cape Town and while I love the city for its history, character, people, mountains and sea, I must say I prefer the weather in Pretoria, he said. No gale force winds, which definitely makes for easier braaiing and outdoor activities, and no litter swirling around. Then there s the fact that Cape Town is now recognised as the country s most traffic-congested city, with Tshwane motorists enjoying a comparative Sunday afternoon drive. In Sarakinsky s opinion though, one of the strongest points in the pro-Tshwane argument is for that of increased government accountability and oversight and that s really important . Right now, if someone attending a meeting in Cape Town leaves an important document in Pretoria, that meeting is often delayed, he said. People can essentially delay accountability. There s a governance dividend to be gained from the move, he said.