The police ministry has released to the public its list of 204 national key points. The Mail & Guardian has put them on a Google map so you can see if you've been living next to one of them for years without knowing it. On the list is President Jacob Zuma's Nkandla residence no surprise there, although it's listed as simply "President of SA residence, KwaZulu-Natal", no mention of the location and various other presidential residences in Pretoria, Cape Town, Durban and Qunu.Government buildings, such as Parliament, the Union Buildings and Tuynhuys are there, as are all nine provincial legislature buildings and 12 SABC offices.Seventeen Eskom power stations are included although not the two new ones that are under construction, Medupi and Kusile plus transmission stations around the country. Petrochemical facilities, such as refineries and storage depots, and the national network of Transnet Pipelines (abbreviated as TPL on the list) are there. Transnet pipelines used to be known as Petronet.The Vaal Dam is a national key point, as are Rand Water's pumping stations in and around Johannesburg, as well as 12 other pump stations, most of them in Mpumalanga.Some of the flags on the map above do not mark the exact location of a key point, but rather the general area in which you're likely to find it. This is because a number of the items on the list were in cryptic shorthand, such as "Pres Residence of SA GP" and many were simply acronyms, such as SFF (Strategic Fuel Fund), Sita (State Information Technology Agency) and TPL (Transnet Pipeline).Also, the only geographical reference points for the many of the places listed are the provinces in which they're located. Key points for which we know nothing more than the province they're in are marked with stars on the map. Half of the national key points are in just two provinces: Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal. Gauteng has the most with 65 of the 204 on the list - which is about a third of the total. The M&G grouped the national key points into 14 categories. The biggest one by far comprises petrochemical facilities 60 of the 204 key points and about a third of those are Transnet Pipeline's network of fuel pipes and pumping stations. Most of the national key points in KwaZulu-Natal (31 of 47) are petrochemical facilities: two refineries are situated in Durban.The next biggest category, electricity infrastructure, includes 17 Eskom power stations and various transmission and distribution stations.Ten of the power stations are in Mpumalanga, so that accounts for about 40% of that province's key points. Johannesburg's City Power is also on the list.Government buildings make up the third-largest category. Forty percent of these are in the Pretoria area, marked on the national key points list as "GN", or Gauteng (north) presumably. GS is Gauteng (north) and covers the Johannesburg area.The defence category mainly comprises divisions of Denel, the state-owned company that manufactures defence and security technology. Eight branches of the South African Reserve Bank make up the bank section.The research facilities category includes the Square Kilometer Array Site (SKA), Onderstepoort Biological Products Ltd, the CSIR Wind Tunnel, Hartebeeshoek Earth Station, the Nuclear Energy Corporation and the National Space Agency.The industry category includes ArcelorMittal, African Explosives Ltd, NCP Chlorchem and Acacia Operations Services Ltd (Heartland Leasing), a subsidiary of AECI, which manages the Umbogintwini Industrial Complex, south of Durban.Only three of the country's airports, OR Tambo in Johannesburg, Cape Town International and King Shaka in Durban are on the list.Two single buoy moorings, one off Mossel Bay and the other off the KwaZulu-Natal coast, make up the shipping category. The three unknowns are most probably part of Transnet Pipeline's network, in the petrochemical category, however, the place names on the list do not make that clear. Click here to view a Google spreadsheet of the full list of the national key points and the categories the M&G put them into. This story was updated on February 6 2015 to reflect the fact that the president's Nkandla residence appears on the national key points list simply as "President of SA residence, KwaZulu-Natal".