African Union Commission chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma appears to have taken an early lead in the race to replace Jacob Zuma as ANC president, with the ANC Youth League expected to become the latest party structure to throw its weight behind her during its national executive committee (NEC)&nbsp; meeting at the weekend. The league s public endorsement of Dlamini-Zuma will come days after Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa s campaign to become the ANC s number one suffered a major blow when labour federation Cosatu reversed its decision to endorse him. Behind the scenes, senior ANC leaders are discussing ways to avoid a contest between leaders from different factions when the party holds its elective conference next year. In what appears to be a desperate attempt to avert another costly split ahead of the 2019 national elections, the party is encouraging its provincial structures to propose names of suitable candidates for the party s top six office bearers, as well as its NEC and its national working committee. ANC spokesperson Zizi Kodwa confirmed this week that party leaders wanted to prevent an unpleasant contest and slates which have previously seen leaders being elected to key positions not on merit but because they belonged to a particular faction in the party. What matters for me is the issue of principle. We are trying to avoid a situation where leaders contest each other, to bring about unity, and do away with the politics of slates, said Kodwa. There has been talk in several ANC structures that secretary general Gwede Mantashe has told Zuma and alliance leaders that he wants out. This article is only available to Mail & Guardian subscribers at present. Please login or&nbsp;consider subscribing. Visit our&nbsp;FAQs page for more information. Alternatively, check back in a few days when the article becomes freely available. Why can t I read this article? This article is considered premium content, which is available to subscribers only during the week of publication under the Mail & Guardian s content embargo system. It s our way of showing M&G subscribers that we appreciate their support. How does the content embargo system work? As a reader, you re able to view content according to the category you fall into:&nbsp; How much does a subscription cost? Go to&nbsp;M&G subscriptions for our various print and digital subscription offers. How do I share embargoed content on social media? Premium embargoed content becomes freely available on the Monday after the week of&nbsp;publication, but the link does not change so you can share it immediately or check back on Monday&nbsp;and share it then by clicking on the relevant social media button/s below the story.