A former driver for the Railway Safety Regulator has turned whistleblower, claiming that his former bosses told him to lie to investigators from the office of the public protector.As the public protector continues its investigation into a host of allegations against the regulator, which monitors railway safety standards, the driver has emerged with an affidavit in which he makes damning accusations against his former employer.In March 2014 the public protector informed the regulator that it was investigating allegations against it. One of the allegations was the unauthorised use of RSR vehicle to deliver anti-Magashule T-shirts in Welkom .The Mail &amp; Guardian was unable to confirm whether this was a reference to Free State Premier Ace Magashule.The driver says he handed his affidavit to the regulator s board members two years ago and that an official from the department of transport requested it two weeks ago. This article is only available to Mail & Guardian subscribers at present. Please login or&nbsp;consider subscribing. Visit our&nbsp;FAQs page for more information. Alternatively, check back in a few days when the article becomes freely available. Why can t I read this article? This article is considered premium content, which is available to subscribers only during the week of publication under the Mail & Guardian s content embargo system. It s our way of showing M&G subscribers that we appreciate their support. How does the content embargo system work? As a reader, you re able to view content according to the category you fall into:&nbsp; How much does a subscription cost? Go to&nbsp;M&G subscriptions for our various print and digital subscription offers. How do I share embargoed content on social media? Premium embargoed content becomes freely available on the Monday after the week of&nbsp;publication, but the link does not change so you can share it immediately or check back on Monday&nbsp;and share it then by clicking on the relevant social media button/s below the story.