There has been little attention paid in the national debate to what young people know about minimum wages, their wage expectations and who stands to benefit most from a minimum wage. This is unfortunate as the labour market needs of young people are complex, with only one in five youth between the ages of 18 and 25 years employed, down from almost 30% in 2008. How to provide protection for those in the labour market, while taking the needs of those on the outside looking in, remains a key challenge as the presidential review panel deliberates on a national minimum wage. The&nbsp;Centre for Social Development in Africa at the University of Johannesburg conducted extensive focus group discussions with youth in this age group, in urban and rural areas in five provinces. We found that young people across all groups (employed and unemployed) had limited knowledge of the minimum wage, its purpose and how the current system of collective bargaining and sectoral determination works. This article is only available to Mail & Guardian subscribers at present. Please login or&nbsp;consider subscribing. Visit our&nbsp;FAQs page for more information. Alternatively, check back in a few days when the article becomes freely available. Why can t I read this article? This article is considered premium content, which is available to subscribers only during the week of publication under the Mail & Guardian s content embargo system. It s our way of showing M&G subscribers that we appreciate their support. How does the content embargo system work? As a reader, you re able to view content according to the category you fall into:&nbsp; How much does a subscription cost? Go to&nbsp;M&G subscriptions for our various print and digital subscription offers. How do I share embargoed content on social media? Premium embargoed content becomes freely available on the Monday after the week of&nbsp;publication, but the link does not change so you can share it immediately or check back on Monday&nbsp;and share it then by clicking on the relevant social media button/s below the story.