Burundi has banned three UN investigators from entering the country after they accused the government of gross human rights violations. The investigators said in a report last month that thousands of people had been tortured, suffered sexual abuse or disappeared during political violence. They also warned of the danger of genocide from the escalating violence. READ: Burundi on the verge of genocide, crimes against humanity -UN The decision comes days after Burundi announced plans to withdraw from the International Criminal Court (ICC). A letter signed by Foreign Affairs Minister Alain Aime Nyamitwe said Pablo de Greiff of Colombia, Christof Heyns of South Africa, and Maya Sahli-Fadel of Algeria were no longer welcome in Burundi. Their investigation, published in a UN report, had described "abundant evidence of gross human rights violations" possibly amounting to crimes against humanity, by the government of Burundi and people associated with it. Speaking in New York on Monday, UN spokesman Stephane Dujarric urged Burundi to continue to co-operate with the investigators. "It's critical that Burundi and every other country co-operate fully with UN human rights mechanism and that is including working with those representing it," he said. READ: UN rights council sets up inquiry into Burundi violations Burundi's announcement to withdraw from the ICC came six months after the Hague-based court said it would investigate ongoing violence in the country. READ: Burundi cabinet approves plan to withdraw from ICC The African Union (AU) has repeatedly complained that the ICC treats Africans and Africa unfairly. Last week, a representative of the non-governmental organisation Trial International was stripped of her visa and ordered to leave Burundi. The employee was scheduled to provide legal training to Burundian lawyers defending victims of state-sponsored violence. Burundi has banned three UN investigators from entering the country after they accused the government of gross human rights violations.The investigators said in a report last month that thousands of people had been tortured, suffered sexual abuse or disappeared during political violence.They also warned of the danger of genocide from the escalating violence.READ: Burundi on the verge of genocide, crimes against humanity -UNThe decision comes days after Burundi announced plans to withdraw from the International Criminal Court (ICC).A letter signed by Foreign Affairs Minister Alain Aime Nyamitwe said Pablo de Greiff of Colombia, Christof Heyns of South Africa, and Maya Sahli-Fadel of Algeria were no longer welcome in Burundi.Their investigation, published in a UN report, had described "abundant evidence of gross human rights violations" possibly amounting to crimes against humanity, by the government of Burundi and people associated with it.Speaking in New York on Monday, UN spokesman Stephane Dujarric urged Burundi to continue to co-operate with the investigators."It's critical that Burundi and every other country co-operate fully with UN human rights mechanism and that is including working with those representing it," he said.READ: UN rights council sets up inquiry into Burundi violationsBurundi's announcement to withdraw from the ICC came six months after the Hague-based court said it would investigate ongoing violence in the country.READ: Burundi cabinet approves plan to withdraw from ICCThe African Union (AU) has repeatedly complained that the ICC treats Africans and Africa unfairly.Last week, a representative of the non-governmental organisation Trial International was stripped of her visa and ordered to leave Burundi. The employee was scheduled to provide legal training to Burundian lawyers defending victims of state-sponsored violence.