The 19th edition of the Nairobi International Book Fair (NIBF) takes place from September 21 to 25 at the Sarit Centre in Westlands, Nairobi. The event attracts local and international exhibitors. It is organised by the Kenya Publishers Association (KPA). Mary Maina, the chairperson of NIBF, said there are 55 Kenyan exhibitors and 15 international exhibitors at the show. Uganda is represented by Fountain Publishers, and Tanzania by Mkuki na Nyota and University of Dar es Salaam s Taasisi ya Taaluma za Kiswahili. Other exhibitors from Africa include Modjaji Books from South Africa and Grail Foundation of Nigeria. The Book Fair will also feature literary discussions and debates as well as children s activities. The highlight of the five-day event will be the unveiling of winners of the Wahome Mutahi Literary Prize winners, in both English and Kiswahili. This award, now in it s sixth edition and given every two years, is in honour of the late humourist and satirist Wahome Mutahi, who was also a published author. Books sold in the country are subject to 16 per cent VAT, introduced by the government three years ago. This tax has had the effect of increasing the cost of books for the end user, as the Kenyan publishing industry suffers low sales, leading to job cuts. At this year s fair, publishers will have an opportunity to engage Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang i on government policy. Mr Matiang i was the chief guest at the opening ceremony on September 22. The theme of this year s event is Inspired to Read, whereby publishers are seeking to have more people, including schoolchildren, reading for leisure. The 19th edition of the Nairobi International Book Fair (NIBF) takes place from September 21 to 25 at the Sarit Centre in Westlands, Nairobi. The event attracts local and international exhibitors. It is organised by the Kenya Publishers Association (KPA).Mary Maina, the chairperson of NIBF, said there are 55 Kenyan exhibitors and 15 international exhibitors at the show. Uganda is represented by Fountain Publishers, and Tanzania by Mkuki na Nyota and University of Dar es Salaam s Taasisi ya Taaluma za Kiswahili. Other exhibitors from Africa include Modjaji Books from South Africa and Grail Foundation of Nigeria.The Book Fair will also feature literary discussions and debates as well as children s activities. The highlight of the five-day event will be the unveiling of winners of the Wahome Mutahi Literary Prize winners, in both English and Kiswahili. This award, now in it s sixth edition and given every two years, is in honour of the late humourist and satirist Wahome Mutahi, who was also a published author.Books sold in the country are subject to 16 per cent VAT, introduced by the government three years ago. This tax has had the effect of increasing the cost of books for the end user, as the Kenyan publishing industry suffers low sales, leading to job cuts.At this year s fair, publishers will have an opportunity to engage Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang i on government policy.Mr Matiang i was the chief guest at the opening ceremony on September 22. The theme of this year s event is Inspired to Read, whereby publishers are seeking to have more people, including schoolchildren, reading for leisure.