Rwanda will receive below normal rain from this month to December, a situation that has the agriculture sector worried. A forecast done by Rwanda Meteorology Agency predicts depressed rain in the eastern and parts of the Southern Province, which will likely affect agricultural output. Eastern Province districts of Nyagatare, Gatsibo, Rwamagana, Ngoma and Kayonza will be affected by declining rainfall, along with the three districts of Kigali City, Gasabo, Kicukiro and Nyarugenge. According to John Ntaganda Semafara, the director-general of Meteo Rwanda, the Southern Province districts of Kamonyi, Muhanga, Ruhango, Huye, Gisagara and Nyanza will also receive less rain. The aforementioned districts will not receive adequate rain this season. The affected areas are going to receive rainfall under 350 millimetres, the official said. The Meteo office says that rainfall ranging between 350mm to 450mm is what is considered to be favourable for Rwanda s agriculture sector. The little rain will likely affect agricultural production in most parts of Eastern Province. Last year, the baseline rainfall range was 370mm in the same period. According to the Ministry of Agriculture, the light rain will not be a threat to the country s food security. We have strategic principles which farmers will follow during the season of light rain, including growing their plants early, growing cool-season crops and water maximisation through irrigation. The Meteo forecast will not sway the plans in place, said Dr Telesphore Ndabamenye, the head of crop Production and food security department, at Rwanda Agriculture Board. Last year drought hit most parts of Eastern Province, resulting in loss of cattle and destruction of 23,448 hectares of crops that left 47,000 families in want. The government had to dig into its strategic reserves to rescue the affected households. The drought led to a rise in food prices not only upcountry but also in Kigali. The government says it is working on long-term solutions to drought problems in Eastern Province. The government previously dug dams to save water for use during the dry spells. Five water reservoir dams were dug in Kayonza and six in Nyagatare but most of them run dry by the end of the dry season. The Ministry of Agriculture blamed limited rainfall and mismanagement of the dams by farmers. Rwanda has allocated Rwf87.2 billion to increase agriculture productivity in 2016/17 budget. The 2015 government contingency plan predicted 200 human deaths and 17,000 internal displacements and 900 people crossing borders to either Tanzania or Uganda in search for food and casual employment in 2016 due to hunger. Rwanda will receive below normal rain from this month to December, a situation that has the agriculture sector worried.A forecast done by Rwanda Meteorology Agency predicts depressed rain in the eastern and parts of the Southern Province, which will likely affect agricultural output.Eastern Province districts of Nyagatare, Gatsibo, Rwamagana, Ngoma and Kayonza will be affected by declining rainfall, along with the three districts of Kigali City, Gasabo, Kicukiro and Nyarugenge.According to John Ntaganda Semafara, the director-general of Meteo Rwanda, the Southern Province districts of Kamonyi, Muhanga, Ruhango, Huye, Gisagara and Nyanza will also receive less rain. The aforementioned districts will not receive adequate rain this season. The affected areas are going to receive rainfall under 350 millimetres, the official said.The Meteo office says that rainfall ranging between 350mm to 450mm is what is considered to be favourable for Rwanda s agriculture sector.The little rain will likely affect agricultural production in most parts of Eastern Province. Last year, the baseline rainfall range was 370mm in the same period.According to the Ministry of Agriculture, the light rain will not be a threat to the country s food security. We have strategic principles which farmers will follow during the season of light rain, including growing their plants early, growing cool-season crops and water maximisation through irrigation. The Meteo forecast will not sway the plans in place, said Dr Telesphore Ndabamenye, the head of crop Production and food security department, at Rwanda Agriculture Board. Last year drought hit most parts of Eastern Province, resulting in loss of cattle and destruction of 23,448 hectares of crops that left 47,000 families in want. The government had to dig into its strategic reserves to rescue the affected households. The drought led to a rise in food prices not only upcountry but also in Kigali. The government says it is working on long-term solutions to drought problems in Eastern Province. The government previously dug dams to save water for use during the dry spells. Five water reservoir dams were dug in Kayonza and six in Nyagatare but most of them run dry by the end of the dry season. The Ministry of Agriculture blamed limited rainfall and mismanagement of the dams by farmers.Rwanda has allocated Rwf87.2 billion to increase agriculture productivity in 2016/17 budget. The 2015 government contingency plan predicted 200 human deaths and 17,000 internal displacements and 900 people crossing borders to either Tanzania or Uganda in search for food and casual employment in 2016 due to hunger.