Years later, she would remember his smell more than his face. A pungent sweaty pong masked by a sickly-smelling perfume. He had grabbed her arm just as she was entering the Machakos Country Bus Station and demanded to know where she was going. Nowhere! she had replied curtly, suddenly noticing his big, round belly. He had on a fading red nylon Manchester United T-shirt that emphasised the large folds of his stomach. There were patches of sweat around his armpits, which had formed dirty rings. His face was wide and a gold-coated incisor tooth glistened when he spoke. Madam, I need to know where you are going, he said firmly. It turned out that he was a bus broker, who had put himself in charge of the bus station. Getting passengers into the buses was his main task and Sophia was making his job more difficult. I told you I am not going anywhere, she said trying to sound firm but panic set in when he started coming towards her in a menacing way. She wondered if he intended to hurt her because of her rude answers. She was on her way to Kitale in western Kenya. She could have gone to the smaller, less crowded Railways bus stop and taken a shuttle earlier on in the morning, but her sister had insisted that taking a bus in the evening would work just as well and it was cheaper. It had been months since Sophia had seen her sister. She had always felt uneasy about coming to Machakos Country Bus Station. It wasn t just the crowds that suffocated her, but the smell also. She found the combination of the smell of roast maize, boiled eggs, groundnuts and body sweat as unbearable as the hawkers selling them. Why do you want to deny us business? asked the sweaty, pudgy man. Before she could respond, he walked directly towards her and shoved her to the ground. She quickly reached for the pepper spray tucked in the front zipper of her bag, oddly pleased at how fast it had come to mind. Dina Morgan, an American missionary, had given it to her as a gift months ago. At first Sophia had laughed and asked her what she was going to do with it. I have nothing else to give you, and you may need this one day, Dina had responded calmly. Sophie had put it in the front zipper of her bag and forgot all about it, until a few seconds ago when she was lying on the ground, her head throbbing in pain. By now the sweaty, pudgy man had been joined by three other members of his gang. Years later, she would remember his smell more than his face. A pungent sweaty pong masked by a sickly-smelling perfume. He had grabbed her arm just as she was entering the Machakos Country Bus Station and demanded to know where she was going. Nowhere! she had replied curtly, suddenly noticing his big, round belly. He had on a fading red nylon Manchester United T-shirt that emphasised the large folds of his stomach. There were patches of sweat around his armpits, which had formed dirty rings. His face was wide and a gold-coated incisor tooth glistened when he spoke. Madam, I need to know where you are going, he said firmly. It turned out that he was a bus broker, who had put himself in charge of the bus station. Getting passengers into the buses was his main task and Sophia was making his job more difficult. I told you I am not going anywhere, she said trying to sound firm but panic set in when he started coming towards her in a menacing way. She wondered if he intended to hurt her because of her rude answers. She was on her way to Kitale in western Kenya. She could have gone to the smaller, less crowded Railways bus stop and taken a shuttle earlier on in the morning, but her sister had insisted that taking a bus in the evening would work just as well and it was cheaper. It had been months since Sophia had seen her sister. She had always felt uneasy about coming to Machakos Country Bus Station. It wasn t just the crowds that suffocated her, but the smell also. She found the combination of the smell of roast maize, boiled eggs, groundnuts and body sweat as unbearable as the hawkers selling them. Why do you want to deny us business? asked the sweaty, pudgy man. Before she could respond, he walked directly towards her and shoved her to the ground. She quickly reached for the pepper spray tucked in the front zipper of her bag, oddly pleased at how fast it had come to mind. Dina Morgan, an American missionary, had given it to her as a gift months ago. At first Sophia had laughed and asked her what she was going to do with it. I have nothing else to give you, and you may need this one day, Dina had responded calmly.Sophie had put it in the front zipper of her bag and forgot all about it, until a few seconds ago when she was lying on the ground, her head throbbing in pain.By now the sweaty, pudgy man had been joined by three other members of his gang.