Kenya is sinking millions of dollars into troubled state-run corporations that have plundered public resources, even as recommendations from a team of experts to abolish or merge moribund organisations continue to gather dust on the shelves. The EastAfrican has learnt that whereas President Uhuru Kenyatta endorsed recommendations to reform public enterprises three years ago, efforts to implement them are being resisted within government circles. Insiders told The EastAfrican that reforming parastatals could prove a tall order, as these institutions are used to reward political loyalty. Samuel Nyandemo, a senior lecturer at the University of Nairobi s School of Economics, said that state-owned corporations have become avenues of siphoning out public money. The government appears to be in no hurry to implement reforms even after the studies were done and recommendations adopted, said Dr Nyandemo. The National Taxpayers Association (NTA), a civil society organisation, said the manner in which bailouts of state-corporations are conducted in Kenya is uneconomical and a burden to the taxpayers, with about one-third of the budget supporting ailing enterprises. Most of these parastatals depend on parent ministries and hence there is a need to harmonise and consolidate their operations. It makes no sense to bail them out, said Michael Otieno, a governance advisor at NTA. Stephen Maina, an economist with the Sembast Development and Policy Institute said that the government needs to hasten divestiture from commercial enterprises because the longer it stays in them, the more the levels of financial injections that the National Treasury must dish out. While it is normal for corporates to face rough financial patches, the consistency with which companies with a government principal shareholding are going under is a cause for worry, said Mr Maina. It is perhaps time Kenyans went back to the drawing board on issues related to the performance of such corporate entities. With the troubled enterprises being listed companies, the first proposal for cash injections has always been a rights issue. Taskforce report In October 2013, the Presidential Task Force on Parastatal Reforms chaired by presidential advisor Abdulkadir Mohammed, recommended the dissolution and merger of 75 state corporations reducing their number to 187 from 262. President Kenyatta directed that the taskforce s recommendations be implemented in three months. According to the taskforce report only 51 state corporations were self-sustaining and did not rely on budgetary support. State-owned corporations currently in dire need of a government bailout include Mumias Sugar Company Ksh2 billion ($19.41 million), Kenya Airways Ksh60 billion ($582.73 million); Uchumi (Ksh1.2 billion, $11.65 million) and Consolidated Bank (Ksh1.8 billion, $17.47 million). National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich however refused to comment on the delayed implementation of the parastatal reforms, instead claiming that the funds advanced to struggling state-owned corporations by the government are merely shareholder loans. Kenya is sinking millions of dollars into troubled state-run corporations that have plundered public resources, even as recommendations from a team of experts to abolish or merge moribund organisations continue to gather dust on the shelves. The EastAfrican has learnt that whereas President Uhuru Kenyatta endorsed recommendations to reform public enterprises three years ago, efforts to implement them are being resisted within government circles. Insiders told The EastAfrican that reforming parastatals could prove a tall order, as these institutions are used to reward political loyalty.Samuel Nyandemo, a senior lecturer at the University of Nairobi s School of Economics, said that state-owned corporations have become avenues of siphoning out public money. The government appears to be in no hurry to implement reforms even after the studies were done and recommendations adopted, said Dr Nyandemo.The National Taxpayers Association (NTA), a civil society organisation, said the manner in which bailouts of state-corporations are conducted in Kenya is uneconomical and a burden to the taxpayers, with about one-third of the budget supporting ailing enterprises. Most of these parastatals depend on parent ministries and hence there is a need to harmonise and consolidate their operations. It makes no sense to bail them out, said Michael Otieno, a governance advisor at NTA.Stephen Maina, an economist with the Sembast Development and Policy Institute said that the government needs to hasten divestiture from commercial enterprises because the longer it stays in them, the more the levels of financial injections that the National Treasury must dish out. While it is normal for corporates to face rough financial patches, the consistency with which companies with a government principal shareholding are going under is a cause for worry, said Mr Maina. It is perhaps time Kenyans went back to the drawing board on issues related to the performance of such corporate entities. With the troubled enterprises being listed companies, the first proposal for cash injections has always been a rights issue. Taskforce reportIn October 2013, the Presidential Task Force on Parastatal Reforms chaired by presidential advisor Abdulkadir Mohammed, recommended the dissolution and merger of 75 state corporations reducing their number to 187 from 262. President Kenyatta directed that the taskforce s recommendations be implemented in three months.According to the taskforce report only 51 state corporations were self-sustaining and did not rely on budgetary support.State-owned corporations currently in dire need of a government bailout include Mumias Sugar Company Ksh2 billion ($19.41 million), Kenya Airways Ksh60 billion ($582.73 million); Uchumi (Ksh1.2 billion, $11.65 million) and Consolidated Bank (Ksh1.8 billion, $17.47 million).National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich however refused to comment on the delayed implementation of the parastatal reforms, instead claiming that the funds advanced to struggling state-owned corporations by the government are merely shareholder loans.