Rwanda s beach volleyball teams sailed into the third round of the CAVB Continental Cup Olympic qualifier after each came second in Cairo. Pooled alongside hosts Egypt, Zimbabwe and Egypt, Rwanda s two men s teams comprised of Olivier Ntagengwa with Patrick Kavalo and Flavien Ndamukunda with Pierre Marshal Kwizera bagged a silver medal after winning their final match against Zimbabwe 3-0. This was Rwanda s second victory after the 3-0 triumph over Egypt. The two women s teams, comprised of Mukantamba Seraphine with Hakizimana Judith and Denise Mutatsimpundu with Charlotte Nzayisenga,opened their account with a 3-1 win over Angola. They then defeated Namibia 3-1 after a 2-0 loss. Rwanda Volleyball Federation (FRVB) chairman Gustave Nkurunziza commended the teams performance after they surpassed the country s expectations. We are happy with teams performance, said Nkurunziza. Our athletes have proved that once given the adequate preparations they can reach pleasing milestones. Our target is to qualify for the next year s Games in Brazil. In 2011, the team of Mutatsimpundu and Nzayisenga failed to qualify for the London 2012 Olympics after losing to Mauritius and South Africa in the continental qualifiers in Rubavu while that of Alex Nkuranga and Guillaume Irakarama also fell short in Morocco. Kenya teams also qualified for the third and final around of the qualifiers. Kenya men finished first while the women won the silver behind Mozambique. Rwanda s beach volleyball teams sailed into the third round of the CAVB Continental Cup Olympic qualifier after each came second in Cairo.Pooled alongside hosts Egypt, Zimbabwe and Egypt, Rwanda s two men s teams comprised of Olivier Ntagengwa with Patrick Kavalo and Flavien Ndamukunda with Pierre Marshal Kwizera bagged a silver medal after winning their final match against Zimbabwe 3-0.This was Rwanda s second victory after the 3-0 triumph over Egypt.The two women s teams, comprised of Mukantamba Seraphine with Hakizimana Judith and Denise Mutatsimpundu with Charlotte Nzayisenga,opened their account with a 3-1 win over Angola. They then defeated Namibia 3-1 after a 2-0 loss.Rwanda Volleyball Federation (FRVB) chairman Gustave Nkurunziza commended the teams performance after they surpassed the country s expectations. We are happy with teams performance, said Nkurunziza. Our athletes have proved that once given the adequate preparations they can reach pleasing milestones. Our target is to qualify for the next year s Games in Brazil. In 2011, the team of Mutatsimpundu and Nzayisenga failed to qualify for the London 2012 Olympics after losing to Mauritius and South Africa in the continental qualifiers in Rubavu while that of Alex Nkuranga and Guillaume Irakarama also fell short in Morocco.Kenya teams also qualified for the third and final around of the qualifiers. Kenya men finished first while the women won the silver behind Mozambique.