The date for the new Miss Rwanda beauty pageant remains on hold as one of the companies bidding to host the function filed in an appeal to Rwanda Public Procurement Authority (RPPA). Two companies which included Rwanda Inspiration Back Up (the current pageant s management since 2014), and General Logistics Services placed bids to run the pageant. Both scored over 80 per cent, which made them winners to qualify for the second session, explains Dr James Vuningoma, Rwanda Academy of Languages and Culture (RALC) s executive secretary. The second stage which was the financial opening is what separated them, where Global Logistics Services emerged as winners while Rwanda Inspiration Back Up came second. Inspiration Back Up came forward to express its dissatisfactions with the results. A meeting with Ishimwe Dieudonne, the Rwanda Inspiration Back Up administrator, where the process was reviewed, though he still wasn t convinced according to Dr Vuningoma. We received a letter from Rwanda Inspiration Back Up stating that the company had submitted a second appeal to Rwanda Public Procurement Authority, Dr Vuningoma affirmed. RALC wrote to General Logistics Services notifying it of the suspension of the process as it awaits RPPA to carry out its investigations. The pageant has faced numerous management challenges since inception in 2009 by Ministry of Sports and Culture. Rwanda Inspiration Back Up was the first company to officially manage the Miss Rwanda beauty Pageant in 2014, a role it took on from Ministry of Sports and Culture. As the company concludes its three-year term, it boasts of benefits to the overall winner like a monthly salary of Rfw700, 000 and a new car among others. The date for the new Miss Rwanda beauty pageant remains on hold as one of the companies bidding to host the function filed in an appeal to Rwanda Public Procurement Authority (RPPA).Two companies which included Rwanda Inspiration Back Up (the current pageant s management since 2014), and General Logistics Services placed bids to run the pageant. Both scored over 80 per cent, which made them winners to qualify for the second session, explains Dr James Vuningoma, Rwanda Academy of Languages and Culture (RALC) s executive secretary. The second stage which was the financial opening is what separated them, where Global Logistics Services emerged as winners while Rwanda Inspiration Back Up came second. Inspiration Back Up came forward to express its dissatisfactions with the results. A meeting with Ishimwe Dieudonne, the Rwanda Inspiration Back Up administrator, where the process was reviewed, though he still wasn t convinced according to Dr Vuningoma. We received a letter from Rwanda Inspiration Back Up stating that the company had submitted a second appeal to Rwanda Public Procurement Authority, Dr Vuningoma affirmed. RALC wrote to General Logistics Services notifying it of the suspension of the process as it awaits RPPA to carry out its investigations. The pageant has faced numerous management challenges since inception in 2009 by Ministry of Sports and Culture. Rwanda Inspiration Back Up was the first company to officially manage the Miss Rwanda beauty Pageant in 2014, a role it took on from Ministry of Sports and Culture. As the company concludes its three-year term, it boasts of benefits to the overall winner like a monthly salary of Rfw700, 000 and a new car among others.