Ugandan artist Ssali Yusuf s new works can be seen at the National Museums of Kenya in Nairobi in his solo exhibition The Other Side. He is known for his paintings of African women, whom he says he celebrates for their contribution to culture and society. However, he deviates from this theme for the 2016 collection. In choosing to review another side of the human form, musicians seem to be Yusuf s choice of character this time around. In bright colourful paintings, Yusuf combines abstract, realism and narrative abstract art styles. The acrylics on oil paintings Rhythm in the Night and We Still Africans are of a trio of musicians dressed in vividly coloured shirts and head-wraps, and playing string instruments and the horn. The brightly-clad drummer in The Last Call is beating a hand-held drum with a stick. The guitarist in Final Tune is strumming a mini-guitar held high up his chest, a broad-rim hat pulled low down his face. Warrior Attack is a semi-abstract image of a traditional warrior holding a sword and spear, and strutting his stuff assertively. Yusuf trained in engineering and industrial arts at Makerere University, and resides in Uganda and Kenya. After working under the tutelage of experienced artists, he branched off on his own in 2003. He merges different methods and techniques developed over the years, working both with acrylics and oils, and incorporating materials like metal and Ugandan bark cloth. In some cases, I adapt a layering technique for effect, Yusuf wrote. Other paintings in the exhibition are of wildlife; I found the abstract images the most intriguing of the collection. In them, Yusuf skilfully weaves brilliant, lustrous colours that drew my attention. Flow of Knowledge versions I and II has intricate patterns and flowy spheres in hues of warm red and yellow. New Discovery brings to mind scientific frontiers with its indigo shades, planet-like shapes and ancient symbols. Last Appreciation resembles a geometric city landscape of tall, multi-coloured buildings under a night sky. Yusuf, 33, has exhibited locally and internationally, and received several awards. Ugandan artist Ssali Yusuf s new works can be seen at the National Museums of Kenya in Nairobi in his solo exhibition The Other Side. He is known for his paintings of African women, whom he says he celebrates for their contribution to culture and society. However, he deviates from this theme for the 2016 collection. In choosing to review another side of the human form, musicians seem to be Yusuf s choice of character this time around. In bright colourful paintings, Yusuf combines abstract, realism and narrative abstract art styles.The acrylics on oil paintings Rhythm in the Night and We Still Africans are of a trio of musicians dressed in vividly coloured shirts and head-wraps, and playing string instruments and the horn. The brightly-clad drummer in The Last Call is beating a hand-held drum with a stick. The guitarist in Final Tune is strumming a mini-guitar held high up his chest, a broad-rim hat pulled low down his face. Warrior Attack is a semi-abstract image of a traditional warrior holding a sword and spear, and strutting his stuff assertively. Yusuf trained in engineering and industrial arts at Makerere University, and resides in Uganda and Kenya. After working under the tutelage of experienced artists, he branched off on his own in 2003.He merges different methods and techniques developed over the years, working both with acrylics and oils, and incorporating materials like metal and Ugandan bark cloth. In some cases, I adapt a layering technique for effect, Yusuf wrote. Other paintings in the exhibition are of wildlife; I found the abstract images the most intriguing of the collection. In them, Yusuf skilfully weaves brilliant, lustrous colours that drew my attention.Flow of Knowledge versions I and II has intricate patterns and flowy spheres in hues of warm red and yellow. New Discovery brings to mind scientific frontiers with its indigo shades, planet-like shapes and ancient symbols. Last Appreciation resembles a geometric city landscape of tall, multi-coloured buildings under a night sky. Yusuf, 33, has exhibited locally and internationally, and received several awards.