The explosion went off at around 5:25am. Daylight was breaking in Janaale, a sleepy town in the southeastern Lower Shabelle region of Somalia, about 90 kilometres from the capital Mogadishu. Through the fast-clearing early morning darkness, two soldiers were on guard duty at the Quarter Guard, were the first to spot the suicide bomber as he raced an explosive-laden vehicle into the tree log contraption that served as a gate to the detachment. The two soldiers fired at the old truck, which veered off sharply, away from the Quarter Guard, towards a building that housed the second-in-command of the detachment, before exploding in an orange fireball of deadly shrapnel. Almost immediately, the skies above opened with the angry roar of death, the tracer bullets whizzing like angry fireflies in the dim light, stinging like bees when they met flesh. Fighters from Harakat Shabaab al-Mujahidin commonly known as al Shabaab had launched an attack on a detachment of Ugandan soldiers serving under the African Union Mission in Somalia (Amisom). Captain Swaibu Ayasiga, the highest-ranking officer at the detachment that day, was awoken by the explosion and the acrid stench of burning chemicals from the bomb. He quickly took command of the troops now scrambling to defend their positions. Outside, al Shabaab had mobilised a formidable force of between 300 and 500 fighters. They came in three waves. At the front, crawling through the long grass, were fresh recruits whose job was to sneak as close as possible to the razor-wire-and-sandbag perimeter of the detachment then lob hand grenades inside. Providing covering fire behind them was a formation of more experienced fighters armed with PK assault rifles a Soviet-made general-purpose machine gun as well as AK-47 and G3 rifles, rocket-propelled grenades and 82mm B10 recoilless rifles, which pack enough punch to knock out a tank. Bringing up the rear were snipers. To support the infantry were three Toyota Land Cruisers and a Mitsubishi Fuso lorry mounted with 12.7mm and 14.5mm single-barrel anti-aircraft guns and converted into technicals , the Somali version of 4x4s modified into improvised fighting vehicles. Stirred into action, the Ugandan soldiers started firing back. To support the infantry, the detachment had one 14.5mm and one 12.7mm anti-aircraft gun, as well as 82mm and 60mm mortars, general-purpose machine guns and assault rifles. Crumbling defence A fierce gun battle ensued and after 35 minutes, there was a pause in the fighting. For a brief moment, it looked like the attack had been beaten off but inside the detachment the Ugandan defence was quickly crumbling. A soldier was reloading the 14.5mm anti-aircraft gun when a sniper s bullet struck his head. He was saved by his Kevlar helmet. Next to him, a sniper s bullet struck another soldier in the right cheek, through his tongue, and exited through his left cheek - but he survived. The crew manning the 12.7mm gun weren t as lucky. They had been shot dead as they tried to reload. Like soldiers in other positions, they had not received second-line ammo. Five boxes of ammo for the 12.7mm gun, part of a consignment that had been supplied three weeks earlier, remained in the armoury, out of reach. The 82mm mortar had jammed after firing only one bomb and although the 60mm mortar fired all its 62 bombs, it did not take long for the attackers to notice that one by one, the heavy support weapons were falling quiet. Inherently opportunistic and smelling victory in the acrid stench of death and gunpowder, the attackers poured forth again. One after another, the Ugandan soldiers started running out of ammo. Whoever rose to change defensive position or reload was almost immediately picked off by the snipers. The explosion went off at around 5:25am. Daylight was breaking in Janaale, a sleepy town in the southeastern Lower Shabelle region of Somalia, about 90 kilometres from the capital Mogadishu.Through the fast-clearing early morning darkness, two soldiers were on guard duty at the Quarter Guard, were the first to spot the suicide bomber as he raced an explosive-laden vehicle into the tree log contraption that served as a gate to the detachment. The two soldiers fired at the old truck, which veered off sharply, away from the Quarter Guard, towards a building that housed the second-in-command of the detachment, before exploding in an orange fireball of deadly shrapnel. Almost immediately, the skies above opened with the angry roar of death, the tracer bullets whizzing like angry fireflies in the dim light, stinging like bees when they met flesh. Fighters from Harakat Shabaab al-Mujahidin commonly known as al Shabaab had launched an attack on a detachment of Ugandan soldiers serving under the African Union Mission in Somalia (Amisom).Captain Swaibu Ayasiga, the highest-ranking officer at the detachment that day, was awoken by the explosion and the acrid stench of burning chemicals from the bomb. He quickly took command of the troops now scrambling to defend their positions. Outside, al Shabaab had mobilised a formidable force of between 300 and 500 fighters. They came in three waves. At the front, crawling through the long grass, were fresh recruits whose job was to sneak as close as possible to the razor-wire-and-sandbag perimeter of the detachment then lob hand grenades inside.Providing covering fire behind them was a formation of more experienced fighters armed with PK assault rifles a Soviet-made general-purpose machine gun as well as AK-47 and G3 rifles, rocket-propelled grenades and 82mm B10 recoilless rifles, which pack enough punch to knock out a tank. Bringing up the rear were snipers. To support the infantry were three Toyota Land Cruisers and a Mitsubishi Fuso lorry mounted with 12.7mm and 14.5mm single-barrel anti-aircraft guns and converted into technicals , the Somali version of 4x4s modified into improvised fighting vehicles. Stirred into action, the Ugandan soldiers started firing back. To support the infantry, the detachment had one 14.5mm and one 12.7mm anti-aircraft gun, as well as 82mm and 60mm mortars, general-purpose machine guns and assault rifles.Crumbling defenceA fierce gun battle ensued and after 35 minutes, there was a pause in the fighting. For a brief moment, it looked like the attack had been beaten off but inside the detachment the Ugandan defence was quickly crumbling.A soldier was reloading the 14.5mm anti-aircraft gun when a sniper s bullet struck his head. He was saved by his Kevlar helmet. Next to him, a sniper s bullet struck another soldier in the right cheek, through his tongue, and exited through his left cheek - but he survived.The crew manning the 12.7mm gun weren t as lucky. They had been shot dead as they tried to reload. Like soldiers in other positions, they had not received second-line ammo. Five boxes of ammo for the 12.7mm gun, part of a consignment that had been supplied three weeks earlier, remained in the armoury, out of reach. The 82mm mortar had jammed after firing only one bomb and although the 60mm mortar fired all its 62 bombs, it did not take long for the attackers to notice that one by one, the heavy support weapons were falling quiet. Inherently opportunistic and smelling victory in the acrid stench of death and gunpowder, the attackers poured forth again. One after another, the Ugandan soldiers started running out of ammo. Whoever rose to change defensive position or reload was almost immediately picked off by the snipers.