Even the most lukewarm Christian in Uganda today cannot fail to notice the repeated use of pigs by protesters who are questioning the monetary benefits Members of Parliament bestow upon themselves. Biblically, a pig was an unclean animal and is still regarded as unclean by Muslims (who form a considerable portion of Uganda s population) and Jews (whose old culture Christians follow to a large extent). Jobless youth protesters, under the name, the Jobless Brotherhood, started taking pigs to parliament in 2014, copying what activists in Kenya had done earlier in the Mpigs protest. The Ugandans have kept doing so at least once a year to denounce MPs apparent luxurious lifestyle amid biting poverty and unemployment. But last week, they did something significantly different from previous protests. While in the past they painted the piglets yellow the ruling party s colour this time they coated the piglets in both yellow and blue, adding the main opposition party on the charge sheet. So they can t be accused of partisanship. The protesting youth are adding drama to a city awash with preachers, where radio and TV daily allocate considerable (paid) airtime to Bible preachers. The Gospels of Matthew and Luke tell the story of Jesus casting out demons from a possessed man. When Jesus approached the crazed guy, his demons pleaded not to be cast into fire but to be put into a heard of swine nearby. Inexplicably, Jesus granted the demons wish and sent them into the swine, which in turn ran down to the sea where they drowned. Interestingly, the pig owners did not claim compensation, or bailout in today s parlance, for their lost investment but instead begged Jesus to leave their town, rather than repenting their sins. The brightly coloured piglets that visit Uganda s parliament every year do not end up drowned in Lake Victoria. They are instead taken into police custody. This could be because they have not picked up the demons that the youth take them there to collect. The demons of irrationality afflicting Ugandans are easily the most enduring legacy of the dictatorships that possessed the country for two decades from 1966. It is not the damaged infrastructure because that is being repaired. It is not the inflation as it has been tamed. It is not physical insecurity as that has been largely contained. It is the absence of shame for wrongdoing, the inability to distinguish right from wrong and the blatant defence of criminality, all emanating from a mindset damaged by dictatorship. Only last week, power utility company Umeme was traversing the country to deal with electricity thieves who did not even try to run away but actually defended their crime. In Mbale, the town at the foot of Mount Elgon, the men who illegally tap the distribution lines, said they have to steal it because it is too priced. In Makindye division of Kampala City, several young women were shown by NTV insulting Umeme officials and vowing to continue stealing the electricity. Before 1966 it was impossible for a criminal to stare in the camera and declare their intent of continuing to steal. At the higher levels of society, we are seeing what retired premier Prof Apollo Nsibambi called the Tyranny of the Legislature. There is a feeling that parliament is demanding excessive privileges, a feeling also repeatedly voiced by the executive. And last week, parliament expectedly did what politicians do best blaming the media; but it also decided to amend existing media laws to whip journalists into line. Never mind that the government spokesman, the secretary to the Treasury and the president have all openly criticised MPs financial demands. Even the most lukewarm Christian in Uganda today cannot fail to notice the repeated use of pigs by protesters who are questioning the monetary benefits Members of Parliament bestow upon themselves. Biblically, a pig was an unclean animal and is still regarded as unclean by Muslims (who form a considerable portion of Uganda s population) and Jews (whose old culture Christians follow to a large extent). Jobless youth protesters, under the name, the Jobless Brotherhood, started taking pigs to parliament in 2014, copying what activists in Kenya had done earlier in the Mpigs protest. The Ugandans have kept doing so at least once a year to denounce MPs apparent luxurious lifestyle amid biting poverty and unemployment. But last week, they did something significantly different from previous protests. While in the past they painted the piglets yellow the ruling party s colour this time they coated the piglets in both yellow and blue, adding the main opposition party on the charge sheet. So they can t be accused of partisanship.The protesting youth are adding drama to a city awash with preachers, where radio and TV daily allocate considerable (paid) airtime to Bible preachers.The Gospels of Matthew and Luke tell the story of Jesus casting out demons from a possessed man. When Jesus approached the crazed guy, his demons pleaded not to be cast into fire but to be put into a heard of swine nearby.Inexplicably, Jesus granted the demons wish and sent them into the swine, which in turn ran down to the sea where they drowned. Interestingly, the pig owners did not claim compensation, or bailout in today s parlance, for their lost investment but instead begged Jesus to leave their town, rather than repenting their sins.The brightly coloured piglets that visit Uganda s parliament every year do not end up drowned in Lake Victoria. They are instead taken into police custody. This could be because they have not picked up the demons that the youth take them there to collect.The demons of irrationality afflicting Ugandans are easily the most enduring legacy of the dictatorships that possessed the country for two decades from 1966. It is not the damaged infrastructure because that is being repaired. It is not the inflation as it has been tamed. It is not physical insecurity as that has been largely contained. It is the absence of shame for wrongdoing, the inability to distinguish right from wrong and the blatant defence of criminality, all emanating from a mindset damaged by dictatorship.Only last week, power utility company Umeme was traversing the country to deal with electricity thieves who did not even try to run away but actually defended their crime. In Mbale, the town at the foot of Mount Elgon, the men who illegally tap the distribution lines, said they have to steal it because it is too priced. In Makindye division of Kampala City, several young women were shown by NTV insulting Umeme officials and vowing to continue stealing the electricity. Before 1966 it was impossible for a criminal to stare in the camera and declare their intent of continuing to steal.At the higher levels of society, we are seeing what retired premier Prof Apollo Nsibambi called the Tyranny of the Legislature. There is a feeling that parliament is demanding excessive privileges, a feeling also repeatedly voiced by the executive. And last week, parliament expectedly did what politicians do best blaming the media; but it also decided to amend existing media laws to whip journalists into line. Never mind that the government spokesman, the secretary to the Treasury and the president have all openly criticised MPs financial demands.