On August 1, 2016, 10 young East Africans were flagged off in Kampala on a mission to cycle nearly 3,000km through Uganda, Rwanda, Tanzania and Kenya for over a month, on a gruelling tour to preach regional unity to the public under the banner of the East African Community. The EAC Secretariat has in the past held public meetings and roadshows across the member states to foster integration but this was the first non-government initiative geared towards the realisation of the EAC s unity dream. The cyclists, 9 young men and one woman between the ages of 21 and 34, were all members of the Ugandan adventure youth group, Campfire Logs Guild. They were in a group of 12, the other two did not cycle but were in charge of planning and finance person and manning the tour vehicle. They cycled 2,882km, a circuit that took them from Kampala, Busia border post, Nairobi, Namanga border post, Arusha, Bujumbura, Kigali and back to Kampala on a budget of only Ush600,000 ($180). Initially, the group had come up with a budget of Ush360 million ($107,627). But after getting no corporate or government sponsorship, they revised it down to Ush40 million ($11,958) which was just enough to scrape by through the tour. We visited various ministries, talked to private companies, but nobody believed in us. We left Kampala with only Ush600,000. How we survived, don t ask. We slept on verandas, in police stations, under trees, but we ve made it, said Balongo on September 3, upon returning to Kampala. For 32 days, they cycled, sometimes on empty stomachs. They got robbed and suffered from malaria; they survived road accidents, slept in the open braving freezing nights in the Kenyan Rift Valley region; experienced hours-long immigration hold-ups at border posts and inquisitive looks from local people, sometimes hostile. Of course, the money they raised was peanuts, and to make matters worse, their first aid kit contained no more than a few painkillers. However, whatever they lacked in material things, they compensated with determination, which on September 3 saw them finish an epic East African bicycle tour dubbed Tour d EAC. In cycling Kigali: During stopovers in towns and villages, the cyclists took time to bond with the local community, talking about the integration of EAC its social and economic benefits, while also experiencing different cultures, having fun and taking part in community programmes like they did during Umuganda in Rwanda. PHOTO | CAMPFIRE LOGS GUILD Before they left Kampala, two cyclists needed yellow fever shots, which cost Ush120,000 ($35.8). Two other cyclists didn t have passports and temporary travel documents had to be applied and paid for, leaving the group with less than Ush300,000 ($90). Beating the odds The adventure was not short on mental and physical tests, the first of which would come on day two when the team was still in Uganda, camping overnight at the Busia border post. On our second day, we were robbed at the Busia border. We lost two bikes, travel documents and bags. At that point, we feared the expedition was off but we dusted ourselves off and resolved to ride on. We started this tour with the objective of changing the perception of the people of East Africa, said tour captain Crispus Byaruhanga. The robbery served the youths as a rude sample of the setbacks that awaited them on the expedition. It forced them to delay their trip as they waited for replacement bikes from Kampala. They were passionate enough to beat the odds. The winning horse in the Kentucky derby wins with its last breath, said John Balongo, the Campfire Logs Guild director. We would have called off the tour when we failed to raise funds, but we had promised the world that we would do it. Robberies were expected. They were not going to stop us. On August 1, 2016, 10 young East Africans were flagged off in Kampala on a mission to cycle nearly 3,000km through Uganda, Rwanda, Tanzania and Kenya for over a month, on a gruelling tour to preach regional unity to the public under the banner of the East African Community. The EAC Secretariat has in the past held public meetings and roadshows across the member states to foster integration but this was the first non-government initiative geared towards the realisation of the EAC s unity dream. The cyclists, 9 young men and one woman between the ages of 21 and 34, were all members of the Ugandan adventure youth group, Campfire Logs Guild. They were in a group of 12, the other two did not cycle but were in charge of planning and finance person and manning the tour vehicle. They cycled 2,882km, a circuit that took them from Kampala, Busia border post, Nairobi, Namanga border post, Arusha, Bujumbura, Kigali and back to Kampala on a budget of only Ush600,000 ($180). Initially, the group had come up with a budget of Ush360 million ($107,627). But after getting no corporate or government sponsorship, they revised it down to Ush40 million ($11,958) which was just enough to scrape by through the tour. We visited various ministries, talked to private companies, but nobody believed in us. We left Kampala with only Ush600,000. How we survived, don t ask. We slept on verandas, in police stations, under trees, but we ve made it, said Balongo on September 3, upon returning to Kampala. For 32 days, they cycled, sometimes on empty stomachs. They got robbed and suffered from malaria; they survived road accidents, slept in the open braving freezing nights in the Kenyan Rift Valley region; experienced hours-long immigration hold-ups at border posts and inquisitive looks from local people, sometimes hostile.Of course, the money they raised was peanuts, and to make matters worse, their first aid kit contained no more than a few painkillers. However, whatever they lacked in material things, they compensated with determination, which on September 3 saw them finish an epic East African bicycle tour dubbed Tour d EAC. In cycling Kigali: During stopovers in towns and villages, the cyclists took time to bond with the local community, talking about the integration of EAC its social and economic benefits, while also experiencing different cultures, having fun and taking part in community programmes like they did during Umuganda in Rwanda. PHOTO | CAMPFIRE LOGS GUILDBefore they left Kampala, two cyclists needed yellow fever shots, which cost Ush120,000 ($35.8). Two other cyclists didn t have passports and temporary travel documents had to be applied and paid for, leaving the group with less than Ush300,000 ($90).Beating the oddsThe adventure was not short on mental and physical tests, the first of which would come on day two when the team was still in Uganda, camping overnight at the Busia border post. On our second day, we were robbed at the Busia border. We lost two bikes, travel documents and bags. At that point, we feared the expedition was off but we dusted ourselves off and resolved to ride on. We started this tour with the objective of changing the perception of the people of East Africa, said tour captain Crispus Byaruhanga. The robbery served the youths as a rude sample of the setbacks that awaited them on the expedition. It forced them to delay their trip as they waited for replacement bikes from Kampala. They were passionate enough to beat the odds. The winning horse in the Kentucky derby wins with its last breath, said John Balongo, the Campfire Logs Guild director. We would have called off the tour when we failed to raise funds, but we had promised the world that we would do it. Robberies were expected. They were not going to stop us. 