Anniversary of the Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA) tracked the organisation s achievements in making sub-Saharan Africa food sufficient. Titled Shared Success: An Agriculture Transformation at 10, the exhibition captured the food chain, from farmers in the field to crop harvesting, collection points, local markets and trading centres. The 30 images all feature small-scale farmers. Smallholders are the backbone of Africa s food production, but their traditional methods of farming are unsustainable, leaving them exposed to the ravages of weather and disease. One photograph shows a farmer in Mozambique carrying a healthy looking bunch of freshly harvested cassava ready for processing. Another shot shows a farmer in Kenya proudly carrying a half-calabash of cowpeas. She has educated her six children from the sales of her farm produce. In another picture, a trader in Arusha stands next to her market stall that is filled with sacks of grain and seed. Another image is of a 67-year old farmer in Burkina Faso holding cobs of maize ready for market. Why is the average age of a farmer in Kenya 60 years? This question was posed by Kenya s Deputy President William Ruto at Agra s anniversary commemoration event, and highlights the low of involvement by the youth in agriculture. A young woman in Mozambique was photographed inside her small agri-shop that she set up after receiving Agra training and initial stock. The proceeds from her business paid for her university education. A mango farmer in central Kenya shown standing beside crates of his fruit harvest is smiling; training in post-harvest management has enabled him to raise his production by 50 per cent in just one year. Agra celebrated its 10th Anniversary at a conference in Nairobi last week attended by Kenya s President Uhuru Kenyatta, Rwanda s President Paul Kagame, former Tanzanian president Jakaya Kikwete and former Nigerian president Olusegun Obasanjo. About 60 per cent of global arable land is in Africa. And as President Obasanjo said, there is no reason why Africa should not be the food basket of the world. Anniversary of the Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA) tracked the organisation s achievements in making sub-Saharan Africa food sufficient. Titled Shared Success: An Agriculture Transformation at 10, the exhibition captured the food chain, from farmers in the field to crop harvesting, collection points, local markets and trading centres. The 30 images all feature small-scale farmers. Smallholders are the backbone of Africa s food production, but their traditional methods of farming are unsustainable, leaving them exposed to the ravages of weather and disease. One photograph shows a farmer in Mozambique carrying a healthy looking bunch of freshly harvested cassava ready for processing. Another shot shows a farmer in Kenya proudly carrying a half-calabash of cowpeas. She has educated her six children from the sales of her farm produce.In another picture, a trader in Arusha stands next to her market stall that is filled with sacks of grain and seed. Another image is of a 67-year old farmer in Burkina Faso holding cobs of maize ready for market. Why is the average age of a farmer in Kenya 60 years? This question was posed by Kenya s Deputy President William Ruto at Agra s anniversary commemoration event, and highlights the low of involvement by the youth in agriculture. A young woman in Mozambique was photographed inside her small agri-shop that she set up after receiving Agra training and initial stock. The proceeds from her business paid for her university education.A mango farmer in central Kenya shown standing beside crates of his fruit harvest is smiling; training in post-harvest management has enabled him to raise his production by 50 per cent in just one year.Agra celebrated its 10th Anniversary at a conference in Nairobi last week attended by Kenya s President Uhuru Kenyatta, Rwanda s President Paul Kagame, former Tanzanian president Jakaya Kikwete and former Nigerian president Olusegun Obasanjo. About 60 per cent of global arable land is in Africa. And as President Obasanjo said, there is no reason why Africa should not be the food basket of the world.