Gabon's constitutional court has upheld President's Ali Bongo's re-election victory, rejecting an appeal by rival Jean Ping, who had called for a recount over widespread allegations of fraud. The court, while partially changing the results of the close August 27 vote, said Bongo maintained a lead over his former ally-turned-opponent Ping. At a televised public hearing overnight in Libreville, in an almost empty room, the court said Bongo had taken 50.66 per cent of the vote against 47.24 per cent for Ping. The announcement of Bongo's victory after the bitterly fought election had sparked days of deadly violence. In his first comments after the ruling, Bongo, 57, appealed for "political dialogue" with the opposition to steer the country out of the crisis triggered by the announcement of his victory. "I call all political leaders, including the defeated candidates in the August 27 election, for a political dialogue," Bongo said in a speech broadcast on television. In his legal challenge, Ping had asked for a recount in the Bongo family stronghold of Haut-Ogooue province, where the president won more than 95 per cent of the votes and turnout was declared to be more than 99 per cent. EU observers have said there was a "clear anomaly" in those results. "No one can dispute the fact that Jean Ping has roundly won this election," his spokesman Jean Gaspard Ntoutoume Ayi told AFP after the court announcement, adding that Ping would make a statement on Saturday morning. Ping, 73, a career diplomat and a former top official at the African Union, had been hoping to end the Bongo family's 50-year grip on power in the oil-rich country of 1.8 million people. The streets of Libreville were empty ahead of the ruling, with residents fearing a new bout of bloodshed. With the country in political limbo for nearly a month, concern had been growing that a ruling in favour of Bongo could spark a fresh wave of opposition protests. Across Libreville, the atmosphere was on a knife-edge with riot police deployed at key junctions in order to head off any more unrest. Judgement day Along Libreville's seafront, trucks carrying paratroopers and soldiers, their weapons at the ready, rumbled alongside cars, shared taxis and armoured vehicles on a road that passes both the court and the presidential palace. Gabon's constitutional court has upheld President's Ali Bongo's re-election victory, rejecting an appeal by rival Jean Ping, who had called for a recount over widespread allegations of fraud.The court, while partially changing the results of the close August 27 vote, said Bongo maintained a lead over his former ally-turned-opponent Ping.At a televised public hearing overnight in Libreville, in an almost empty room, the court said Bongo had taken 50.66 per cent of the vote against 47.24 per cent for Ping.The announcement of Bongo's victory after the bitterly fought election had sparked days of deadly violence.In his first comments after the ruling, Bongo, 57, appealed for "political dialogue" with the opposition to steer the country out of the crisis triggered by the announcement of his victory."I call all political leaders, including the defeated candidates in the August 27 election, for a political dialogue," Bongo said in a speech broadcast on television.In his legal challenge, Ping had asked for a recount in the Bongo family stronghold of Haut-Ogooue province, where the president won more than 95 per cent of the votes and turnout was declared to be more than 99 per cent. EU observers have said there was a "clear anomaly" in those results."No one can dispute the fact that Jean Ping has roundly won this election," his spokesman Jean Gaspard Ntoutoume Ayi told AFP after the court announcement, adding that Ping would make a statement on Saturday morning.Ping, 73, a career diplomat and a former top official at the African Union, had been hoping to end the Bongo family's 50-year grip on power in the oil-rich country of 1.8 million people.The streets of Libreville were empty ahead of the ruling, with residents fearing a new bout of bloodshed.With the country in political limbo for nearly a month, concern had been growing that a ruling in favour of Bongo could spark a fresh wave of opposition protests.Across Libreville, the atmosphere was on a knife-edge with riot police deployed at key junctions in order to head off any more unrest.Judgement dayAlong Libreville's seafront, trucks carrying paratroopers and soldiers, their weapons at the ready, rumbled alongside cars, shared taxis and armoured vehicles on a road that passes both the court and the presidential palace.