Thanks to technology and social media, an average person today sees dozens of pictures daily without giving much thought to them. I was flipping through pictures online a few months ago when one image stopped my finger in midair. It is of a cave full of people in a mountain side, with light beaming in from the cave entrance revealing smouldering red coal from cooking fires. The image is by Nairobi-based American photojournalist Adriane Ohanesian. I wanted to be there when the people were waking up, said Ohanesian of the haunting picture. She took the picture deep in the Marrah Mountains in the heart of Darfur, a conflict region in western Sudan, the land of the Fur people. Dar means land in Arabic and fur is the name of the ethnic group inhabiting the land. It s an area nobody can get to easily. Yet she did. For years, no United Nations agency or international journalist had been granted permission by the government in Khartoum to visit the region. It has remained volatile and off the tourist map for almost a decade. What is known is Darfur from 10 years ago, she said, referring to the Save Darfur movement in the US a decade ago when she first heard of Darfur. Back then the main concern was modern day slavery. There were stories of the dark-skinned Fur people being captured and sold into slavery by pro-government Arab militia. A lot of people thought that the conflict had ended but the truth is that it had escalated, she explained, adding, I knew I wanted to get to these mountains because nobody had been there in the past five years. There was no information coming out and I wanted to know what was happening. It took three years of planning with a Dutch journalist to figure out how to get to the rebel-controlled area. A dangerous journey by no means. It was about making the right connections. The rebel group Sudan Liberation Movement/Army (SLM/A) controls the mountains that I was trying to get to. Daring into Darfur Ohanesian s curiosity about Darfur and the conflict there was stirred by young Sudanese students she met in Cairo in 2010 while visiting her friend in the city. They were inviting and hospitable. It was such a big contrast between the kindness of the Darfurians and the image I had of the conflict there and how the Sudanese government was intent on setting communities against each other. The cycle of violence in Darfur has been described as the Arab apartheid with the pro-government Arab communities attacking the dark-skinned communities. Ohanesian s opinion is that It s a strategy to create conflict and keep the people occupied through fighting. It s about control of resources by suppressing people. Thanks to technology and social media, an average person today sees dozens of pictures daily without giving much thought to them. I was flipping through pictures online a few months ago when one image stopped my finger in midair. It is of a cave full of people in a mountain side, with light beaming in from the cave entrance revealing smouldering red coal from cooking fires. The image is by Nairobi-based American photojournalist Adriane Ohanesian. I wanted to be there when the people were waking up, said Ohanesian of the haunting picture.She took the picture deep in the Marrah Mountains in the heart of Darfur, a conflict region in western Sudan, the land of the Fur people. Dar means land in Arabic and fur is the name of the ethnic group inhabiting the land. It s an area nobody can get to easily. Yet she did.For years, no United Nations agency or international journalist had been granted permission by the government in Khartoum to visit the region. It has remained volatile and off the tourist map for almost a decade. What is known is Darfur from 10 years ago, she said, referring to the Save Darfur movement in the US a decade ago when she first heard of Darfur. Back then the main concern was modern day slavery. There were stories of the dark-skinned Fur people being captured and sold into slavery by pro-government Arab militia. A lot of people thought that the conflict had ended but the truth is that it had escalated, she explained, adding, I knew I wanted to get to these mountains because nobody had been there in the past five years. There was no information coming out and I wanted to know what was happening. It took three years of planning with a Dutch journalist to figure out how to get to the rebel-controlled area. A dangerous journey by no means. It was about making the right connections. The rebel group Sudan Liberation Movement/Army (SLM/A) controls the mountains that I was trying to get to. Daring into DarfurOhanesian s curiosity about Darfur and the conflict there was stirred by young Sudanese students she met in Cairo in 2010 while visiting her friend in the city. They were inviting and hospitable. It was such a big contrast between the kindness of the Darfurians and the image I had of the conflict there and how the Sudanese government was intent on setting communities against each other. The cycle of violence in Darfur has been described as the Arab apartheid with the pro-government Arab communities attacking the dark-skinned communities.Ohanesian s opinion is that It s a strategy to create conflict and keep the people occupied through fighting. It s about control of resources by suppressing people. 