At least three eminent women are set to join President Paul Kagame s team that is charged with spearheading reforms at the African Union. After The EastAfrican exclusively reported the appointment of Carlos Lopes, Donald Kaberuka, Strive Masiyiwa and Acha Leke to the team, one of the president s 1.5 million Twitter followers questioned why no woman had been named. The team is not complete... awaiting consent of two women to join the team. Thinking of three, President Kagame replied. The AU is expected to wean itself of donor dependency by 2018. President Kagame was tasked with leading efforts to reform the AU into a self-reliant body. Mr Kaberuka, the former president of the African Development Bank, presented a new model of financing to African leaders during the 27th Heads of State Summit held in Kigali in July. He will work with Mr Lopes, the outgoing executive director of the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa, and Mr Masiyiwa, the Econet Wireless founder. Mr Leke is a senior partner at global consultancy firm McKinsey &amp; Company. READ: Kagame now picks Dream Team to drive AU independence There was speculation that the team would include Rwanda s Foreign Affairs Minister Louise Mushikiwabo, but this was countered by the argument that her Cabinet position would not allow her to take up another full time engagement. The other possible appointee was former Nigerian finance minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala. Ms Mushikiwabo, who is also the government spokesperson, confirmed that three women will join the team but said she could not reveal the names yet. Indeed, shortly three women will join the team working with President Kagame on the AU reform proposal to be shared with other heads of state at the next AU Summit in January 2017. President Kagame s work on the reforms is quite advanced, but it s never too late to get a woman s views. The president wrote to his fellow African heads of state after the Kigali Summit asking for input to enrich his work, and a few have already responded, Ms Mushikiwabo told The EastAfrican. The AU has in the past come under scrutiny for its dependency on donors and its failure to make firm decisions on important matters affecting the continent. Although the leaders have adopted a new model for financing the AU, challenges remain on how it will be implemented considering that a similar model floated by former Nigerian president Olusegun Obasanjo failed to take off. Mr Obasanjo had suggested that states levy a tourism tax of $2 on hotel rooms and a $10 levy on each air ticket bought. The new model championed by Mr Kaberuka will see countries raise about $1.2 billion to finance AU operations through a 0.2 per cent tax on imports. Africa can do better in terms of mobilising internal resources, Mr Lopes said. At least three eminent women are set to join President Paul Kagame s team that is charged with spearheading reforms at the African Union.After The EastAfrican exclusively reported the appointment of Carlos Lopes, Donald Kaberuka, Strive Masiyiwa and Acha Leke to the team, one of the president s 1.5 million Twitter followers questioned why no woman had been named. The team is not complete... awaiting consent of two women to join the team. Thinking of three, President Kagame replied.The AU is expected to wean itself of donor dependency by 2018. President Kagame was tasked with leading efforts to reform the AU into a self-reliant body. Mr Kaberuka, the former president of the African Development Bank, presented a new model of financing to African leaders during the 27th Heads of State Summit held in Kigali in July. He will work with Mr Lopes, the outgoing executive director of the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa, and Mr Masiyiwa, the Econet Wireless founder. Mr Leke is a senior partner at global consultancy firm McKinsey &amp; Company.READ: Kagame now picks Dream Team to drive AU independenceThere was speculation that the team would include Rwanda s Foreign Affairs Minister Louise Mushikiwabo, but this was countered by the argument that her Cabinet position would not allow her to take up another full time engagement.The other possible appointee was former Nigerian finance minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala.Ms Mushikiwabo, who is also the government spokesperson, confirmed that three women will join the team but said she could not reveal the names yet. Indeed, shortly three women will join the team working with President Kagame on the AU reform proposal to be shared with other heads of state at the next AU Summit in January 2017. President Kagame s work on the reforms is quite advanced, but it s never too late to get a woman s views. The president wrote to his fellow African heads of state after the Kigali Summit asking for input to enrich his work, and a few have already responded, Ms Mushikiwabo told The EastAfrican.The AU has in the past come under scrutiny for its dependency on donors and its failure to make firm decisions on important matters affecting the continent.Although the leaders have adopted a new model for financing the AU, challenges remain on how it will be implemented considering that a similar model floated by former Nigerian president Olusegun Obasanjo failed to take off. Mr Obasanjo had suggested that states levy a tourism tax of $2 on hotel rooms and a $10 levy on each air ticket bought.The new model championed by Mr Kaberuka will see countries raise about $1.2 billion to finance AU operations through a 0.2 per cent tax on imports. Africa can do better in terms of mobilising internal resources, Mr Lopes said.