In sleepy Kiponzero village in rural Iringa, Tanzania, we weave through footpaths covered with dry maize stalks, looking for Samuel Bangi s house. After several turns, we find Mr Bangi busy shelling maize, ready for storage. At the centre of his compound, that also contains his two-bedroom house and a cow pen is a traditional shelling structure, which he uses after harvesting the grain. Using a traditional sheller, Bangi pounds the maize atop a modified sieve, which breaks and scatters the grain, including on a mat spread underneath the sieve. The sheller is time and energy consuming. I have been using this traditional shelling method for a very long time. It is the easiest way to shell this maize, but it is time consuming, Mr Bangi says as he demonstrates how it is done. Using a traditional sheller, the farmer pounds the maize atop a modified sieve, which breaks and scatters the grain, including on a mat spread underneath the sieve. The sheller is time and energy consuming. PHOTO | ALLAN OLINGO Behind Mr Bangi is his holding bay, with about seven tonnes of unshelled maize. I expect to finish this job, with the assistance of my family, in the next five days. Then I will take the maize to the co-operative for aggregation and storage. We have an agreement with a buyer who will be coming to pick it up, he says, adding that he expects $1,400 from the sale of his harvest. Mechanical sheller Mr Bangi is among millions of regional farmers who are still stuck with manual shelling of maize, said to contribute to more than 30 per cent of grain loss, mostly through breaking. Due to financial constraints, most farmers opt to spread their grains in the sun to dry before using pesticide, then storing it in the bags. Six kilometres from Mr Bangi s homestead is Mathew Kaundama s, at Kalenga village. Mr Kaundama is already using a mechanical sheller for his maize harvest. Mr Kaundama says that he also uses special bags that do away with the need for post-harvest chemicals. I pride myself on products that are free from any chemicals and whose toxin levels are acceptable. This has got us an even more secure, ready market because of the superior quality of the maize, Mr Kaundama said, adding that before embracing modern technology, he had losses of up to 100 kilogrammes per tonne. With this technology, we have reduced the loss to about five kilogrammes per tonne. This technology also allows us to store the maize longer. The bag is made up of three layers of permeable material that allows the maize to breathe so it doesn t get mouldy. I wish the government could champion this, he says. Mr Kaundama says that through modern harvesting methods, his yield has increased from 5-8 bags per acre, to 12-18 bags. Maize storage bags. PHOTO | ALLAN OLINGO I lease the sheller from our co-operative at a cost of $4 a day. It is among the technologies that have helped us because we plant maize for commercial purposes, hence the need to minimise losses, Mr Kaundama says. In sleepy Kiponzero village in rural Iringa, Tanzania, we weave through footpaths covered with dry maize stalks, looking for Samuel Bangi s house. After several turns, we find Mr Bangi busy shelling maize, ready for storage. At the centre of his compound, that also contains his two-bedroom house and a cow pen is a traditional shelling structure, which he uses after harvesting the grain.Using a traditional sheller, Bangi pounds the maize atop a modified sieve, which breaks and scatters the grain, including on a mat spread underneath the sieve. The sheller is time and energy consuming. I have been using this traditional shelling method for a very long time. It is the easiest way to shell this maize, but it is time consuming, Mr Bangi says as he demonstrates how it is done. Using a traditional sheller, the farmer pounds the maize atop a modified sieve, which breaks and scatters the grain, including on a mat spread underneath the sieve. The sheller is time and energy consuming. PHOTO | ALLAN OLINGOBehind Mr Bangi is his holding bay, with about seven tonnes of unshelled maize. I expect to finish this job, with the assistance of my family, in the next five days. Then I will take the maize to the co-operative for aggregation and storage. We have an agreement with a buyer who will be coming to pick it up, he says, adding that he expects $1,400 from the sale of his harvest.Mechanical shellerMr Bangi is among millions of regional farmers who are still stuck with manual shelling of maize, said to contribute to more than 30 per cent of grain loss, mostly through breaking. Due to financial constraints, most farmers opt to spread their grains in the sun to dry before using pesticide, then storing it in the bags.Six kilometres from Mr Bangi s homestead is Mathew Kaundama s, at Kalenga village. Mr Kaundama is already using a mechanical sheller for his maize harvest. Mr Kaundama says that he also uses special bags that do away with the need for post-harvest chemicals. I pride myself on products that are free from any chemicals and whose toxin levels are acceptable. This has got us an even more secure, ready market because of the superior quality of the maize, Mr Kaundama said, adding that before embracing modern technology, he had losses of up to 100 kilogrammes per tonne. With this technology, we have reduced the loss to about five kilogrammes per tonne. This technology also allows us to store the maize longer. The bag is made up of three layers of permeable material that allows the maize to breathe so it doesn t get mouldy. I wish the government could champion this, he says.Mr Kaundama says that through modern harvesting methods, his yield has increased from 5-8 bags per acre, to 12-18 bags.Maize storage bags. PHOTO | ALLAN OLINGO I lease the sheller from our co-operative at a cost of $4 a day. It is among the technologies that have helped us because we plant maize for commercial purposes, hence the need to minimise losses, Mr Kaundama says.