Five years ago Bill Nyirimihigo, 30, relocated back to Rwanda from Canada. As he was still trying to find his true calling, he realised that Kigali lacked social events that start in the early afternoon and go on into a decent hour of the night. He decided to fill the gap by coming up with with the concept of a la brunch. At first I wasn t too sure what I wanted to do, although back in Canada while still in university I was doing events, he said. With his experience from Canada where such events are a success, he decided to combine his love for food and that of bringing people together. He formed a company Billoux Productions to work on a la brunch, aimed at bringing people together to experience new foods by new chefs, new hangouts, play games and listen to poetry and new music from new talents he discovers as he tries out his hand in in artists management. The idea is to have a different venue with every event. I came up with this idea because I wanted to see something different happening on a Saturday and Sunday afternoon in Kigali and which is equally child friendly." So every a la brunch event starts in the afternoon with food, games and a lot of music. Nyirimihigo is a self-proclaimed music lover and ensures every event has good music complete with guest appearances of famous people to the events. Event managing in Rwanda is not a big money spinner and that is why he also helps in running his father s business for his day to day upkeep. A la brunch targets people in their 20s-30s who have lived abroad and experienced such events. Nyirimihigo does not advertise but relies on word of mouth and his twitter handle, @billnyi, which he uses to announce upcoming events. Eventually I would love a la brunch to go regional like Blankets and Wine that happens in Kenya and Uganda, he said. This month s event will be the third instalment of the year, the other two having taken place in June and August. Entrance is free since guests are expected to buy food and drinks. He started with only 40 people showing but lately has been forced to get bigger venues as the crowds grow. To this end, he collaborated with Dorah Kirezi the co-proprietor of La Ranche a newly opened grill and lounge bar in upmarket Kibagabaga. The a la brunch event being held here gives us more connection to most people because Nyirimihigo is well connected and the presence of Sauti Sol hanging out here is going to help bring visibility, said Ms Kirezi alluding to the presence of the award winning Kenyan group that recently hanged out at her lounge during their tour of Kigali. Nyirimihigo chose La Ranche because the co-owners supported him when he started. He studied communication and music production but his passion is event organisation. Five years ago Bill Nyirimihigo, 30, relocated back to Rwanda from Canada. As he was still trying to find his true calling, he realised that Kigali lacked social events that start in the early afternoon and go on into a decent hour of the night. He decided to fill the gap by coming up with with the concept of a la brunch. At first I wasn t too sure what I wanted to do, although back in Canada while still in university I was doing events, he said.With his experience from Canada where such events are a success, he decided to combine his love for food and that of bringing people together. He formed a company Billoux Productions to work on a la brunch, aimed at bringing people together to experience new foods by new chefs, new hangouts, play games and listen to poetry and new music from new talents he discovers as he tries out his hand in in artists management. The idea is to have a different venue with every event. I came up with this idea because I wanted to see something different happening on a Saturday and Sunday afternoon in Kigali and which is equally child friendly." So every a la brunch event starts in the afternoon with food, games and a lot of music. Nyirimihigo is a self-proclaimed music lover and ensures every event has good music complete with guest appearances of famous people to the events.Event managing in Rwanda is not a big money spinner and that is why he also helps in running his father s business for his day to day upkeep. A la brunch targets people in their 20s-30s who have lived abroad and experienced such events. Nyirimihigo does not advertise but relies on word of mouth and his twitter handle, @billnyi, which he uses to announce upcoming events. Eventually I would love a la brunch to go regional like Blankets and Wine that happens in Kenya and Uganda, he said.This month s event will be the third instalment of the year, the other two having taken place in June and August. Entrance is free since guests are expected to buy food and drinks. He started with only 40 people showing but lately has been forced to get bigger venues as the crowds grow. To this end, he collaborated with Dorah Kirezi the co-proprietor of La Ranche a newly opened grill and lounge bar in upmarket Kibagabaga. The a la brunch event being held here gives us more connection to most people because Nyirimihigo is well connected and the presence of Sauti Sol hanging out here is going to help bring visibility, said Ms Kirezi alluding to the presence of the award winning Kenyan group that recently hanged out at her lounge during their tour of Kigali.Nyirimihigo chose La Ranche because the co-owners supported him when he started. He studied communication and music production but his passion is event organisation.