Kenya s debt market is readying for improved activity after the government introduced controls on lending rates. This is expected to encourage banks to put more money in Treasury bills and bonds, which are currently offering returns of above 10 per cent, with no risk of default. But this is not good news for the Nairobi Securities Exchange, which has been struggling to attract companies to raise capital by selling shares to new investors through initial public offerings. Bonds, which promise investors stated annual returns over a specified period, are more attractive during periods of low interest rates, because the yield (the difference between the price of a bond and the par value, expressed as a percentage) falls to match the lower cost of money, allowing investors to make more on the secondary market. Low interest rates also attract more issues, because companies offering the notes can sell them at a price closer to the par value, raising more money overall than when interest rates are high. The drop in lending rates and the rise in deposit rates are expected to squeeze margins for banks, prompting them to look for alternative investments to protect their earnings. We anticipate that banks will scramble for any bond on the market, with at least a 14 per cent annual coupon rate (interest payment on the bond). We also anticipate that banks will opt to hold such bonds and those acquired during primary auctions to maturity, said Edwin Chui, a research analyst at Dyer &amp; Blair Investment Bank. The Family Bank bond, with a coupon rate (the interest rate paid by the bond issuer to investors every year, usually calculated at half year intervals) of 14 per cent, is offering the highest return at the NSE at the moment. Last week, the yields on government securities varied from 12.5 per cent on the two-year Treasury bond to 14.5 per cent for a 15-year bond. The yields have been fairly constant over the past year. About 16 corporate bonds are listed on the NSE, with an average yield of 13.5 per cent. The yield for a three-year bond was at 12.75 per cent last week, compared with 12.25 per cent a year ago. On Tuesday last week, bonds valued at Ksh1.4 billion ($13.58 million) were traded, compared with Ksh1.6 billion ($15.52 million) on Monday. In contrast with bonds, share prices surge with high interest rates, as equities compete with fixed-income securities for funds. In the short term, we anticipate a panic-driven selloff of listed bank equities in the Nairobi bourse due to uncertainty on the impact the cap will have on banks profitability, he added. Analysts at Dyer &amp; Blair say increased competition for government paper between commercial banks, pension funds, insurance companies and fund managers will pull the yields downwards, allowing bondholders to demand higher prices. Kenya s debt market is readying for improved activity after the government introduced controls on lending rates.This is expected to encourage banks to put more money in Treasury bills and bonds, which are currently offering returns of above 10 per cent, with no risk of default.But this is not good news for the Nairobi Securities Exchange, which has been struggling to attract companies to raise capital by selling shares to new investors through initial public offerings.Bonds, which promise investors stated annual returns over a specified period, are more attractive during periods of low interest rates, because the yield (the difference between the price of a bond and the par value, expressed as a percentage) falls to match the lower cost of money, allowing investors to make more on the secondary market. Low interest rates also attract more issues, because companies offering the notes can sell them at a price closer to the par value, raising more money overall than when interest rates are high. The drop in lending rates and the rise in deposit rates are expected to squeeze margins for banks, prompting them to look for alternative investments to protect their earnings. We anticipate that banks will scramble for any bond on the market, with at least a 14 per cent annual coupon rate (interest payment on the bond). We also anticipate that banks will opt to hold such bonds and those acquired during primary auctions to maturity, said Edwin Chui, a research analyst at Dyer &amp; Blair Investment Bank. The Family Bank bond, with a coupon rate (the interest rate paid by the bond issuer to investors every year, usually calculated at half year intervals) of 14 per cent, is offering the highest return at the NSE at the moment. Last week, the yields on government securities varied from 12.5 per cent on the two-year Treasury bond to 14.5 per cent for a 15-year bond. The yields have been fairly constant over the past year. About 16 corporate bonds are listed on the NSE, with an average yield of 13.5 per cent. The yield for a three-year bond was at 12.75 per cent last week, compared with 12.25 per cent a year ago.On Tuesday last week, bonds valued at Ksh1.4 billion ($13.58 million) were traded, compared with Ksh1.6 billion ($15.52 million) on Monday.In contrast with bonds, share prices surge with high interest rates, as equities compete with fixed-income securities for funds. In the short term, we anticipate a panic-driven selloff of listed bank equities in the Nairobi bourse due to uncertainty on the impact the cap will have on banks profitability, he added.Analysts at Dyer &amp; Blair say increased competition for government paper between commercial banks, pension funds, insurance companies and fund managers will pull the yields downwards, allowing bondholders to demand higher prices.