Travelling to Kibeho from Kigali by road takes about four hours. Nestled in Nyaruguru District of southern Rwanda, Our Lady of Kibeho, the name given to Marian apparitions, lies in a scarcely populated area at the end of a dusty road. Marian apparitions are appearances of the Virgin Mary, the mother of Jesus. Along the Catholic pilgrim s journey to Kibeho, there are several stops at other shrines. Rwanda has a large Catholic population. Kabgayi Basilica lies on the way to Kibeho, and is one of the few basilicas found on the continent. On the same route is the oldest Catholic church in Rwanda, the Save Parish. Apparitions The apparitions occurred at Kibeho College, a secondary school for girls, and included an apocalyptic vision of Rwanda descending into violence and hatred that many believe foretold the 1994 Genocide against the Tutsi. It is believed that three women, Alphonsine Mumureke, Anathalie Mukamazimpaka and Marie Claire Mukangongo, saw her. The Virgin Mary appeared to the group with the name Nyina wa Jambo (Mother of the Word) synonymous with Umubyeyi W Imana (Mother of God). The teenage visionaries reported that the Virgin Mary asked everyone to pray to prevent a terrible war. In the vision of August 19, 1982, they all reported seeing violence, dismembered corpses and destruction. The longest series of visions were attributed to Alphonsine, who received the first vision on November 28, 1981 and the last on November 28, 1989, shortly after she had been admitted to the Kibeho High School in October, 1981, immediately after her primary studies. Anathalie s visions began in January 1982 and ended on December 3, 1983. Marie had visions for six months, from March 2, 1982 to September 15, 1982. She was later killed in the genocide at the same location. The Vatican, under the aegis of Pope John Paul II, approved the visions in 2003. Anathalie still lives in Kibeho and Alphonsine is now a nun based in Italy. The visions came to us in public; we would see them during school assembly here, said Anathalie. She was showing us the place where the statue of Our Lady of Kibeho, also known as Our Lady of Sorrow, was built. The busiest day for visitors is August 15, Assumption Day of Mary. On this day, it is also believed that rain falls in Kibeho regardless of the season. November 28, the anniversary of the apparitions, is also popular for tourists. Travelling to Kibeho from Kigali by road takes about four hours. Nestled in Nyaruguru District of southern Rwanda, Our Lady of Kibeho, the name given to Marian apparitions, lies in a scarcely populated area at the end of a dusty road. Marian apparitions are appearances of the Virgin Mary, the mother of Jesus.Along the Catholic pilgrim s journey to Kibeho, there are several stops at other shrines. Rwanda has a large Catholic population. Kabgayi Basilica lies on the way to Kibeho, and is one of the few basilicas found on the continent. On the same route is the oldest Catholic church in Rwanda, the Save Parish.ApparitionsThe apparitions occurred at Kibeho College, a secondary school for girls, and included an apocalyptic vision of Rwanda descending into violence and hatred that many believe foretold the 1994 Genocide against the Tutsi. It is believed that three women, Alphonsine Mumureke, Anathalie Mukamazimpaka and Marie Claire Mukangongo, saw her.The Virgin Mary appeared to the group with the name Nyina wa Jambo (Mother of the Word) synonymous with Umubyeyi W Imana (Mother of God). The teenage visionaries reported that the Virgin Mary asked everyone to pray to prevent a terrible war. In the vision of August 19, 1982, they all reported seeing violence, dismembered corpses and destruction.The longest series of visions were attributed to Alphonsine, who received the first vision on November 28, 1981 and the last on November 28, 1989, shortly after she had been admitted to the Kibeho High School in October, 1981, immediately after her primary studies. Anathalie s visions began in January 1982 and ended on December 3, 1983. Marie had visions for six months, from March 2, 1982 to September 15, 1982. She was later killed in the genocide at the same location. The Vatican, under the aegis of Pope John Paul II, approved the visions in 2003.Anathalie still lives in Kibeho and Alphonsine is now a nun based in Italy. The visions came to us in public; we would see them during school assembly here, said Anathalie. She was showing us the place where the statue of Our Lady of Kibeho, also known as Our Lady of Sorrow, was built.The busiest day for visitors is August 15, Assumption Day of Mary. On this day, it is also believed that rain falls in Kibeho regardless of the season. November 28, the anniversary of the apparitions, is also popular for tourists.