The highly anticipated trial of suspects accused of participating in acts of religious radicalism in Rwanda begins on September 26, even as more suspects are arrested. The number of suspected terrorists awaiting trial has gradually increased following renewed operations against suspected jihadists by security officials. From March 17, the number of suspects has increased from 17 to almost 30 and more are expected to make an initial appearance before a pre-trial judge. The prosecution confirms the arrest of five more suspects for terrorism acts, said Faustin Nkusi, spokesperson of the National Public Prosecution Authority. However, he did not give details of where the suspects are being held or when they were arrested. Emmanuel Itamwa Mahame, the spokesperson of the Rwandan Judiciary, said the prosecution has requested pre-trial detention of the new suspects to allow further investigation. A source familiar with the file, told The EastAfrican that apart from the 17 who were arrested at the beginning of the year, three more were netted in May and another three in July. The state links all the 28 suspects to terrorism activities in different parts of the country and are divided into five categories depending on where they are suspected of operating from. They are divided into the Rubavu, Kabaya, Kigali and Nyagatare groups as well as another group said to have been operating outside the country, the source said. According to analysts, the trial may start in March next year, after the expiry of a one-year deadline provided for by law for extending a pre-trial detention order for suspects. Rwanda has not been a target of any terrorist attacks, but security organs say they have detected the formation of terrorist networks in the country. Over the past month, senior military and police officials have been meeting local government officials and opinion leaders of the Muslim community, sensitising them on the need to combat religious radicalism. During the recent Eid celebrations, Muslim leaders issued a communication forbidding Rwandan Muslim women to wear a burka or niqab. On August 19, three Rwandan Muslims accused of leading a jihadist recruitment campaign were shot dead and three others arrested in a house in Bugarama, a town in the southwest of the country. The police justified the use of force against the five men and a woman, saying they refused to surrender. Those killed during the operation were Eric Mbarushimana, Hassan Nkwaya and Mussa Bugingo. Those arrested were Shafi Cyiza, Latifah Morina, and Abubakar Ngabonziza. They are currently in police custody pending further investigations. READ: Rwanda: More suspects shot in terror crackdown The highly anticipated trial of suspects accused of participating in acts of religious radicalism in Rwanda begins on September 26, even as more suspects are arrested.The number of suspected terrorists awaiting trial has gradually increased following renewed operations against suspected jihadists by security officials.From March 17, the number of suspects has increased from 17 to almost 30 and more are expected to make an initial appearance before a pre-trial judge. The prosecution confirms the arrest of five more suspects for terrorism acts, said Faustin Nkusi, spokesperson of the National Public Prosecution Authority.However, he did not give details of where the suspects are being held or when they were arrested.Emmanuel Itamwa Mahame, the spokesperson of the Rwandan Judiciary, said the prosecution has requested pre-trial detention of the new suspects to allow further investigation. A source familiar with the file, told The EastAfrican that apart from the 17 who were arrested at the beginning of the year, three more were netted in May and another three in July.The state links all the 28 suspects to terrorism activities in different parts of the country and are divided into five categories depending on where they are suspected of operating from. They are divided into the Rubavu, Kabaya, Kigali and Nyagatare groups as well as another group said to have been operating outside the country, the source said. According to analysts, the trial may start in March next year, after the expiry of a one-year deadline provided for by law for extending a pre-trial detention order for suspects. Rwanda has not been a target of any terrorist attacks, but security organs say they have detected the formation of terrorist networks in the country. Over the past month, senior military and police officials have been meeting local government officials and opinion leaders of the Muslim community, sensitising them on the need to combat religious radicalism. During the recent Eid celebrations, Muslim leaders issued a communication forbidding Rwandan Muslim women to wear a burka or niqab. On August 19, three Rwandan Muslims accused of leading a jihadist recruitment campaign were shot dead and three others arrested in a house in Bugarama, a town in the southwest of the country. The police justified the use of force against the five men and a woman, saying they refused to surrender. Those killed during the operation were Eric Mbarushimana, Hassan Nkwaya and Mussa Bugingo. Those arrested were Shafi Cyiza, Latifah Morina, and Abubakar Ngabonziza. They are currently in police custody pending further investigations.READ: Rwanda: More suspects shot in terror crackdown