The explosion of motorcycles in Africa is projected to escalate to new levels as two-wheelers become the main means of transport for the majority of the continent s population. A new report by US-based consultancy firm TechSci Research shows that motorcycle manufacturers and assemblers are seeking to increase their presence on the continent, where the business is projected to more than double from $4 billion to $9 billion over the next five years. The report shows that South Africa, Nigeria and Tanzania are the largest motorcycle markets, followed by Kenya, Algeria, Uganda, Egypt, Morocco, Angola and Ethiopia. The public transport systems in African countries are still inadequate and poorly developed, and consequently, two-wheelers are becoming a key mode of transport in urban and rural areas, says the report titled Africa Two-Wheeler Market 2011-2021. In East Africa, the significant growth of the motorcycle sector has largely been driven by attractive fiscal incentives that have resulted in a drastic decline in the prices of the two-wheelers. READ: EAC extends 15pc motorcycle tax waiver Kenya s decision to waive import tax and the completely knocked down (CKD) parts tax in 2007 saw a huge increase in motorcycles popularly known as boda bodas in the country. Recently, the government abolished excise duty on locally assembled motorcycles, a move that is intended to spur further growth of the sector. In 2007, Kenya had fewer than 100,000 registered motorcycles today the number stands at over 700,000. There are also now 21 assemblers, yet five years ago there were no assembling operations in the country. Tanzania is the biggest motorcycle market in the region and has about one million registered boda bodas. Uganda has about 200,000. However, as the industry grows, there are concerns about boda bodas becoming a menace. In Kenya, security and health stakeholders have questioned the government s decision to abolish excise duty on locally assembled motorcycles. According to Daniel Lemmer, chief operating officer at Securex Agencies Ltd, crime involving armed gangs on motorcycles is on the rise. In the past three months alone, boda boda crimes accounted for 13 per cent of all armed robbery and theft incidents recorded by the company. Apart from insecurity, boda bodas are also choking health sector budgets, with statistics showing that motorcycles accounted for about 20 per cent of fatal accidents in Kenya. READ: Inefficient motorcycle engines could be banned in Kenya The explosion of motorcycles in Africa is projected to escalate to new levels as two-wheelers become the main means of transport for the majority of the continent s population.A new report by US-based consultancy firm TechSci Research shows that motorcycle manufacturers and assemblers are seeking to increase their presence on the continent, where the business is projected to more than double from $4 billion to $9 billion over the next five years.The report shows that South Africa, Nigeria and Tanzania are the largest motorcycle markets, followed by Kenya, Algeria, Uganda, Egypt, Morocco, Angola and Ethiopia. The public transport systems in African countries are still inadequate and poorly developed, and consequently, two-wheelers are becoming a key mode of transport in urban and rural areas, says the report titled Africa Two-Wheeler Market 2011-2021.In East Africa, the significant growth of the motorcycle sector has largely been driven by attractive fiscal incentives that have resulted in a drastic decline in the prices of the two-wheelers. READ: EAC extends 15pc motorcycle tax waiverKenya s decision to waive import tax and the completely knocked down (CKD) parts tax in 2007 saw a huge increase in motorcycles popularly known as boda bodas in the country. Recently, the government abolished excise duty on locally assembled motorcycles, a move that is intended to spur further growth of the sector. In 2007, Kenya had fewer than 100,000 registered motorcycles today the number stands at over 700,000. There are also now 21 assemblers, yet five years ago there were no assembling operations in the country. Tanzania is the biggest motorcycle market in the region and has about one million registered boda bodas. Uganda has about 200,000.However, as the industry grows, there are concerns about boda bodas becoming a menace. In Kenya, security and health stakeholders have questioned the government s decision to abolish excise duty on locally assembled motorcycles.According to Daniel Lemmer, chief operating officer at Securex Agencies Ltd, crime involving armed gangs on motorcycles is on the rise. In the past three months alone, boda boda crimes accounted for 13 per cent of all armed robbery and theft incidents recorded by the company. Apart from insecurity, boda bodas are also choking health sector budgets, with statistics showing that motorcycles accounted for about 20 per cent of fatal accidents in Kenya.READ: Inefficient motorcycle engines could be banned in Kenya