The Tamarind s Carnivore Restaurant, located off the busy Lang'ata Road in Nairobi, has been an iconic institution in Kenya for more than 35 years, serving its unique a mix of exotic, fire-roasted meats. Now, Roast by Carnivore is the newest restaurant by the Tamarind Group. Situated in The Hub mall in Karen, their motto is Spread the Fire. Roast is all about platters of flame-cooked meats served at a quick-service eatery. We looked at what people like about the Carnivore and decided to make it into a scalable business that we could take to people in as many areas as we felt the brand could be sustained, said Gavin Bell, the director of food and beverage development. Roast is located at a corner on the ground floor facing the open-air piazza area of the mall. When the weather is amenable, you can eat at the outdoor tables. Inside, there are more tables, booths, high stools and a bar. The restaurant s brick walls, unvarnished wood and tracing paper menus give the place a trendy yet casual feel. The red chairs, vibrant food art drawn on blackboards, and the flame emblem add a splash of colour to a somewhat dusky interior. The meat platters are the favourite among customers at Roast. There are four types: Samplers of beef or pork ribs, grilled lamb chops, barbequed chicken and sausages, all accompanied by salsa and served on cast iron skillets. Depending on how carnivorous you are feeling, you can start with a modest Fire Platter at 300gm up to the whopping Inferno at 1.2kg, accompanied by thin-sliced, crispy fried potatoes. The flame-grilled burger is a twist on the Tamarind classic, and another fast mover. People like the taste, they like the size, they like the consistency of it, said Bell. If you re inclined to a lighter meat offering, Roast has introduced sandwiches of slow-cooked, tender pulled beef, pork and chicken with fresh tomatoes and lettuce stuffed into pitta bread, tortilla or baguettes. The pulled sandwiches are also a convenient item to order as a take-out. The grilled meats can be ordered for home delivery, a service that has been gathering momentum. People want nyama choma but don t want to do it at home. There s now an avenue for them to get the full-on Carnivore platter in their home, Bell said. Roast is clearly a meat-eater s delight. A Veggievore Burger with cucumber and yoghurt sauce, crispy Herbivore Salad, ugali fritters, and chips with a selection of sauces make up the entire list of vegetarian options. Weekends at the Roast are busy when there are more visitors to the mall. Weekday lunches and evenings are a tranquil dining experience. The Roast also serves Tamarind s signature Dawa cocktail, made with vodka, lime, honey and sugar. The drinks menu has a modest selection of wines, beer and spirits. Our juices are our biggest movers, said Bell. The Tamarind s Carnivore Restaurant, located off the busy Lang'ata Road in Nairobi, has been an iconic institution in Kenya for more than 35 years, serving its unique a mix of exotic, fire-roasted meats. Now, Roast by Carnivore is the newest restaurant by the Tamarind Group. Situated in The Hub mall in Karen, their motto is Spread the Fire. Roast is all about platters of flame-cooked meats served at a quick-service eatery. We looked at what people like about the Carnivore and decided to make it into a scalable business that we could take to people in as many areas as we felt the brand could be sustained, said Gavin Bell, the director of food and beverage development. Roast is located at a corner on the ground floor facing the open-air piazza area of the mall. When the weather is amenable, you can eat at the outdoor tables. Inside, there are more tables, booths, high stools and a bar. The restaurant s brick walls, unvarnished wood and tracing paper menus give the place a trendy yet casual feel. The red chairs, vibrant food art drawn on blackboards, and the flame emblem add a splash of colour to a somewhat dusky interior. The meat platters are the favourite among customers at Roast. There are four types: Samplers of beef or pork ribs, grilled lamb chops, barbequed chicken and sausages, all accompanied by salsa and served on cast iron skillets. Depending on how carnivorous you are feeling, you can start with a modest Fire Platter at 300gm up to the whopping Inferno at 1.2kg, accompanied by thin-sliced, crispy fried potatoes.The flame-grilled burger is a twist on the Tamarind classic, and another fast mover. People like the taste, they like the size, they like the consistency of it, said Bell. If you re inclined to a lighter meat offering, Roast has introduced sandwiches of slow-cooked, tender pulled beef, pork and chicken with fresh tomatoes and lettuce stuffed into pitta bread, tortilla or baguettes. The pulled sandwiches are also a convenient item to order as a take-out.The grilled meats can be ordered for home delivery, a service that has been gathering momentum. People want nyama choma but don t want to do it at home. There s now an avenue for them to get the full-on Carnivore platter in their home, Bell said.Roast is clearly a meat-eater s delight. A Veggievore Burger with cucumber and yoghurt sauce, crispy Herbivore Salad, ugali fritters, and chips with a selection of sauces make up the entire list of vegetarian options. Weekends at the Roast are busy when there are more visitors to the mall. Weekday lunches and evenings are a tranquil dining experience.The Roast also serves Tamarind s signature Dawa cocktail, made with vodka, lime, honey and sugar. The drinks menu has a modest selection of wines, beer and spirits. Our juices are our biggest movers, said Bell.