If one of the region s oldest art centres the Kuona Trust is indeed going down the tubes, amid a flurry of rumours, accusations, misinformation and donor concern, then at least it is going down in style. The current, and I hope not the final, exhibition is of paintings and woodcuts by one of the Trust s best known artists, the printmaker John Silver. Silver has worked in his studio there for the past 10 years, and it is at Kuona that he creates his typical surrealist woodcuts, frequently compared to the pioneer Kenyan painter Meek Gichugu. Silver teaches print-making, and I do enjoy the formal rigour of his work. I like his small editions (five is a big number for him), which mean collectors are effectively getting both high value and the best of the cut, and I love his palette of cerulean shot with accents of hunter s green and crimson, intertwined with the soft browns of his baselines and branches. I also admire the way he allows his thick inks to collect and congeal, paddling and cracking like the tactile surface of a macaroon. Silver s compositions are often surprising strong central figures balanced by series of small motifs and the subjects are certainly so. Attenuated animals are a favourite, morphing into human or musical forms. One shows an elephant s trunk that extends into a harp; another presents an elephant with stilt-like legs taken from a zebra and a giraffe, supporting a woman who reclines elegantly against its trunk. Yet another, a woodcut printed onto canvas, is of a man balanced on a waterbuck, a hat perched jauntily on one knee as he plays a lute. A fish swims through the air towards him while a small angel blows a giant trumpet. Not only Meek Gichugu comes to mind. I think too of Alice in Wonderland, its author Lewis Carroll and his Lobster Quadrille and his poem Jabberwocky from Through the Looking Glass: Twas brillig, and the slithy toves Did gyre and gimble in the wabe... Then too there is Edward Lear and his fabulous nonsense poems like The Owl and the Pussycat (who went to sea in a beautiful pea-green boat). Gichugu and Silver are of that ilk, and all the better for it. This is a small but important exhibition of two paintings and 10 prints, sitting at the heart physically as well as metaphorically of the Kuona. If one of the region s oldest art centres the Kuona Trust is indeed going down the tubes, amid a flurry of rumours, accusations, misinformation and donor concern, then at least it is going down in style.The current, and I hope not the final, exhibition is of paintings and woodcuts by one of the Trust s best known artists, the printmaker John Silver.Silver has worked in his studio there for the past 10 years, and it is at Kuona that he creates his typical surrealist woodcuts, frequently compared to the pioneer Kenyan painter Meek Gichugu. Silver teaches print-making, and I do enjoy the formal rigour of his work.I like his small editions (five is a big number for him), which mean collectors are effectively getting both high value and the best of the cut, and I love his palette of cerulean shot with accents of hunter s green and crimson, intertwined with the soft browns of his baselines and branches.I also admire the way he allows his thick inks to collect and congeal, paddling and cracking like the tactile surface of a macaroon.Silver s compositions are often surprising strong central figures balanced by series of small motifs and the subjects are certainly so.Attenuated animals are a favourite, morphing into human or musical forms. One shows an elephant s trunk that extends into a harp; another presents an elephant with stilt-like legs taken from a zebra and a giraffe, supporting a woman who reclines elegantly against its trunk.Yet another, a woodcut printed onto canvas, is of a man balanced on a waterbuck, a hat perched jauntily on one knee as he plays a lute. A fish swims through the air towards him while a small angel blows a giant trumpet. Not only Meek Gichugu comes to mind. I think too of Alice in Wonderland, its author Lewis Carroll and his Lobster Quadrille and his poem Jabberwocky from Through the Looking Glass: Twas brillig, and the slithy toves Did gyre and gimble in the wabe... Then too there is Edward Lear and his fabulous nonsense poems like The Owl and the Pussycat (who went to sea in a beautiful pea-green boat).Gichugu and Silver are of that ilk, and all the better for it.This is a small but important exhibition of two paintings and 10 prints, sitting at the heart physically as well as metaphorically of the Kuona.