Somalia has kicked off the election of 275 MPs, which will be complete October 10. Key towns such as Mogadishu, Baidoa and Kismayu have been abuzz with campaigns as various candidates sought support from religious leaders, influential members of their communities and the 135 clan elders who are supposed to select the 14,025 electors. Registration of Electoral College delegates by representatives of the Indirect Electoral Implementation Team (IEIT) will take place throughout last week. Each of the 275 MPs will be elected by 51 delegates from the different regions of Banaadir, Hiraan, Lower Jubba, Mudug, North East, North West, Togtheer and Upper Jubba. Of the 51 delegates 16 are supposed to be women, 10 will be youths and the remaining 25 will be from the wider community, including members of civil society. Regional federal units such as Puntland, Galmudug, Southwest Interim Administration and Jubaland will then elect the 54 members of the upper house or the Senate. However, the election faces a major threat from Al Shabaab. On September 19, Sheikh Ali Mohamoud Raghe alias Sheikh Ali Dhere, the Al Shabaab spokesman said his jihadists will violently disrupt the election. However, peacekeepers serving with the African Union Mission in Somalia (Amisom) said they will guarantee the safety of electoral venues. Some 69 federal MPs will be chosen in Baidoa, while the remaining 206 MPs will be selected from Garowe, Kismayu, Mogadishu, Cadaado and a yet-to-be-identified location in Hiiraan and Middle Shabelle regions. Somalia has kicked off the election of 275 MPs, which will be complete October 10.Key towns such as Mogadishu, Baidoa and Kismayu have been abuzz with campaigns as various candidates sought support from religious leaders, influential members of their communities and the 135 clan elders who are supposed to select the 14,025 electors. Registration of Electoral College delegates by representatives of the Indirect Electoral Implementation Team (IEIT) will take place throughout last week. Each of the 275 MPs will be elected by 51 delegates from the different regions of Banaadir, Hiraan, Lower Jubba, Mudug, North East, North West, Togtheer and Upper Jubba.Of the 51 delegates 16 are supposed to be women, 10 will be youths and the remaining 25 will be from the wider community, including members of civil society.Regional federal units such as Puntland, Galmudug, Southwest Interim Administration and Jubaland will then elect the 54 members of the upper house or the Senate. However, the election faces a major threat from Al Shabaab. On September 19, Sheikh Ali Mohamoud Raghe alias Sheikh Ali Dhere, the Al Shabaab spokesman said his jihadists will violently disrupt the election.However, peacekeepers serving with the African Union Mission in Somalia (Amisom) said they will guarantee the safety of electoral venues.Some 69 federal MPs will be chosen in Baidoa, while the remaining 206 MPs will be selected from Garowe, Kismayu, Mogadishu, Cadaado and a yet-to-be-identified location in Hiiraan and Middle Shabelle regions.