Advertising firms in Rwanda are counting losses after the City of Kigali expedited impromptu orders to bring down billboards along the road leading to the Kigali International Airport (KIA). The order, given on Thursday afternoon, required that the firms bring down their billboards by the end of the day, a move which the companies say will affect their revenues. The stretch between the junctions to Nyandungu-Eastern Province road and Airport road had numerous billboards welcoming tourists entering the country. The advertising firms say this was one of the most strategic routes and was generating good revenue for them. The firms noted that the directive, given on a short notice, will likely lead them to losses, with clients, including banks, hotels and tech companies, having booked the advertising spaces for more than six months. Our clients had paid for six months and others for a year. We will now have to refund the money if we won t find an alternative location which they will like, a representative of one of the affected firms told The EastAfrican on condition of anonymity. Advertising firms had been invited to an urgent meeting where they were informed of the directive. This is to inform all billboard owners whose billboards are located within new airport boundaries to come for a briefing meeting ongoing at the site regarding the relocation of those billboards, a short notice message sent to the companies read. Upon arrival, the companies were asked to bring down the billboards by the end of the day failure to which the Kigali City authorities would remove them. Efforts to negotiate with city officials on the deadline did not bear fruit, with officials maintaining that the orders should be implemented with immediate effect. Our concern was that the order was on short notice. We were not given time to explain the issue to our clients. We were told we will be given alternative locations to put the billboards but we were not told where, an advertiser who sought anonymity said. We were informed that we need to replace the current billboards with digital ones, much smaller in size, the advertiser added. Most of the billboards are rented for a cost ranging from $900 to $1,200 a month, generating about $12,000 per year. Some of the affected firms include Akagera Business Group, Pan African Advertising and Alliance Media, among others. Part of new guidelines The City of Kigali spokesperson Bruno Rangira told The EastAfrican that the move was part of the changes at the airport and the surrounding areas as well as a result of new by-laws concerning outdoor advertising. Advertising firms in Rwanda are counting losses after the City of Kigali expedited impromptu orders to bring down billboards along the road leading to the Kigali International Airport (KIA).The order, given on Thursday afternoon, required that the firms bring down their billboards by the end of the day, a move which the companies say will affect their revenues.The stretch between the junctions to Nyandungu-Eastern Province road and Airport road had numerous billboards welcoming tourists entering the country. The advertising firms say this was one of the most strategic routes and was generating good revenue for them. The firms noted that the directive, given on a short notice, will likely lead them to losses, with clients, including banks, hotels and tech companies, having booked the advertising spaces for more than six months. Our clients had paid for six months and others for a year. We will now have to refund the money if we won t find an alternative location which they will like, a representative of one of the affected firms told The EastAfrican on condition of anonymity.Advertising firms had been invited to an urgent meeting where they were informed of the directive. This is to inform all billboard owners whose billboards are located within new airport boundaries to come for a briefing meeting ongoing at the site regarding the relocation of those billboards, a short notice message sent to the companies read.Upon arrival, the companies were asked to bring down the billboards by the end of the day failure to which the Kigali City authorities would remove them.Efforts to negotiate with city officials on the deadline did not bear fruit, with officials maintaining that the orders should be implemented with immediate effect. Our concern was that the order was on short notice. We were not given time to explain the issue to our clients. We were told we will be given alternative locations to put the billboards but we were not told where, an advertiser who sought anonymity said. We were informed that we need to replace the current billboards with digital ones, much smaller in size, the advertiser added.Most of the billboards are rented for a cost ranging from $900 to $1,200 a month, generating about $12,000 per year. Some of the affected firms include Akagera Business Group, Pan African Advertising and Alliance Media, among others.Part of new guidelinesThe City of Kigali spokesperson Bruno Rangira told The EastAfrican that the move was part of the changes at the airport and the surrounding areas as well as a result of new by-laws concerning outdoor advertising.