Catholic parishioners in northern Uganda clashed with police and army officers in a row over a dead bishop on Thursday. Irate Christians accused the new Bishop of Arua, Sabino Odoki, of neglecting the grave of Fredrick Drandua, a long-serving diocesan who died on September 1. Gunshots are said to have rocked Ediofe Cathedral, 3km west of Arua town, from around midnight. The Uganda Radio Network reported that the tensions started when rumours began circulating that Bishop Odoki had directed that his predecessor s body be moved to a burial site outside the cathedral. This allegation angered some Catholics in the diocese who began camping at the graveside, claiming to be mourning and protecting the burial site. They also feared the grave might be robbed for the bishop's gold rings and rosary, the state-owned New Vision newspaper reported. Drandua was on September 7 interred inside the Ediofe Cathedral, which is under renovation. According to privately-owned Daily Monitor newspaper, Bishop Odoki had unsuccessfully tried to get the parishioners, who had kept vigil at the graveside, to leave to pave way for renovation works. Odoki then requested the police to intervene. The result was a confrontation that saw the priests' offices and residences vandalised, and a makeshift structure where Sunday masses were being conducted razed down as the angry parishioners attempted to evict the bishop. The police responded by firing teargas and bullets, but later sought military reinforcement to tame a surging rowdy crowd. The Monitor reported that 16 suspects were arrested. Bad relation The conflict has however been simmering. The relationship between Bishop Odoki, some section of the clergy and parishioners had been deteriorating. The genesis of the dispute is said to have began after the dismissal of a number of senior priests, but worsened after Bishop Drandua fell ill and died. A section of church members accused the bishop of treating his predecessor badly in his hour of need after the diocese failed to raise money, and allegedly declined guarantee, for his treatment in Italy. Drandua, who had served in the Arua diocese for 23 years, was widely revered in West Nile. During Drandua's burial, Odoki, along with other Catholic bishops, are reported to have been pelted with stones by angry parishioners. Odoki later reported the attackers to President Yoweri Museveni a week ago, calling them terrorists . This branding is said to have damaged the already stormy relationship. Catholic parishioners in northern Uganda clashed with police and army officers in a row over a dead bishop on Thursday.Irate Christians accused the new Bishop of Arua, Sabino Odoki, of neglecting the grave of Fredrick Drandua, a long-serving diocesan who died on September 1.Gunshots are said to have rocked Ediofe Cathedral, 3km west of Arua town, from around midnight.The Uganda Radio Network reported that the tensions started when rumours began circulating that Bishop Odoki had directed that his predecessor s body be moved to a burial site outside the cathedral.This allegation angered some Catholics in the diocese who began camping at the graveside, claiming to be mourning and protecting the burial site.They also feared the grave might be robbed for the bishop's gold rings and rosary, the state-owned New Vision newspaper reported.Drandua was on September 7 interred inside the Ediofe Cathedral, which is under renovation. According to privately-owned Daily Monitor newspaper, Bishop Odoki had unsuccessfully tried to get the parishioners, who had kept vigil at the graveside, to leave to pave way for renovation works. Odoki then requested the police to intervene. The result was a confrontation that saw the priests' offices and residences vandalised, and a makeshift structure where Sunday masses were being conducted razed down as the angry parishioners attempted to evict the bishop. The police responded by firing teargas and bullets, but later sought military reinforcement to tame a surging rowdy crowd. The Monitor reported that 16 suspects were arrested.Bad relationThe conflict has however been simmering. The relationship between Bishop Odoki, some section of the clergy and parishioners had been deteriorating. The genesis of the dispute is said to have began after the dismissal of a number of senior priests, but worsened after Bishop Drandua fell ill and died.A section of church members accused the bishop of treating his predecessor badly in his hour of need after the diocese failed to raise money, and allegedly declined guarantee, for his treatment in Italy. Drandua, who had served in the Arua diocese for 23 years, was widely revered in West Nile. During Drandua's burial, Odoki, along with other Catholic bishops, are reported to have been pelted with stones by angry parishioners. Odoki later reported the attackers to President Yoweri Museveni a week ago, calling them terrorists . This branding is said to have damaged the already stormy relationship.