The annual Nairobi Pizza Festival is back. Launched on September 22, the second edition will run for one week, from September 26 to October 2, at more than 30 restaurants in the city. The participating restaurants will offer a two-for-one deal on pizza, and several will extend the deal to beer. Partners include cooking oil brand SunGold Lite, Carlsberg beer, Kenya Tourism Board, the Italian Cultural Institute and Sirimon Cheese. The festival was launched at Pizza Hut s branch on University Way in Nairobi s central business district. Pizza Hut claims to have delivered the first pizza to the top of Mt Kilimanjaro. I had slices of the Chicken Tikka and the Meatbrawl. The Tikka is surprisingly mild at first bite, and then the chilli hits your tongue after a few seconds. The Meatbrawl, topped with meatballs, is spicy and filling. EatOut general manager Michelle Slater said she was grateful for all the support from the partners. Global food chains are setting up in Kenya. Just last month, US fast food chain Hardee s opened in Nairobi, and Burger King is set to follow shortly. Kenya Tourism Board managing director Jacinta Nzioka-Mbithi expressed her support for the festival. We look forward to another successful event furthering our shared mission to put Kenya s dining scene on the global culinary map, she said. Director of the Italian Cultural Institute Francesca Chiesa said, As an Italian, I am very excited to see that in Nairobi, as in the world, pizza has become a part of everyday life. In Kenya, beer is not generally associated with pizza, but could catch on. Carlsberg is trying to grow its presence in the country through partnerships like these, Jude Musyoki, the digital marketing manager of EatOut, said at the launch on Thursday. The annual Nairobi Pizza Festival is back. Launched on September 22, the second edition will run for one week, from September 26 to October 2, at more than 30 restaurants in the city. The participating restaurants will offer a two-for-one deal on pizza, and several will extend the deal to beer.Partners include cooking oil brand SunGold Lite, Carlsberg beer, Kenya Tourism Board, the Italian Cultural Institute and Sirimon Cheese.The festival was launched at Pizza Hut s branch on University Way in Nairobi s central business district. Pizza Hut claims to have delivered the first pizza to the top of Mt Kilimanjaro. I had slices of the Chicken Tikka and the Meatbrawl. The Tikka is surprisingly mild at first bite, and then the chilli hits your tongue after a few seconds. The Meatbrawl, topped with meatballs, is spicy and filling.EatOut general manager Michelle Slater said she was grateful for all the support from the partners.Global food chains are setting up in Kenya. Just last month, US fast food chain Hardee s opened in Nairobi, and Burger King is set to follow shortly. Kenya Tourism Board managing director Jacinta Nzioka-Mbithi expressed her support for the festival. We look forward to another successful event furthering our shared mission to put Kenya s dining scene on the global culinary map, she said.Director of the Italian Cultural Institute Francesca Chiesa said, As an Italian, I am very excited to see that in Nairobi, as in the world, pizza has become a part of everyday life. In Kenya, beer is not generally associated with pizza, but could catch on. Carlsberg is trying to grow its presence in the country through partnerships like these, Jude Musyoki, the digital marketing manager of EatOut, said at the launch on Thursday.