The construction of 2,700 low-cost houses in Rugarama has received funding from Shelter Afrique in partnership with Development Bank of Rwanda. The project, which is expected to be completed in three years, will cost Rwf129 billion after Kigali City provided the land on which the houses are to be constructed as part of the subsidy. Low-cost housing needs government intervention. You cannot pull through purely for commercial market purposes. For the houses to work for the investor, they need to be close to the city. And the government has really to come in strongly and subsidize in one way or another, said Kefa Agwenyi, a developer in Kigali. The high costs of constructing low-cost houses have made property developers shun this segment of the market, pushing many people into unplanned estates About 50 per cent of Kigali residents live in overcrowded, low-quality houses, according to a survey released by Kigali City Authority. There is a shortage of over 400,000 houses. The city has only 223,000 housing units, calling for heavy investment in the sector to satisfy demand. Analysts suggests low-cost housing needs subsidies of upto 40 per cent to make it attract to investors. The subsidies should be in form of free land, constructing roads, connecting water and electricity at the project site, said Agwenyi. Shelter Afrique s debt and equity exposure will total $60 million with financing and equity also being provided by Development Bank of Rwanda. We entered a new strategy cycle in 2015 and part of that was to begin projects of impact and scale, to develop master-planned communities and cities, and Rugarama represents our pivot to such projects, Shelter Afrique managing director James Mugerwa said in a statement. Rwanda is attracting a lot of investment at the moment, and this is the effect of a strong vibrant economy, but beyond Rwanda you can expect more of this from us. We are actively seeking private public partnerships, he added. The construction of 2,700 low-cost houses in Rugarama has received funding from Shelter Afrique in partnership with Development Bank of Rwanda.The project, which is expected to be completed in three years, will cost Rwf129 billion after Kigali City provided the land on which the houses are to be constructed as part of the subsidy. Low-cost housing needs government intervention. You cannot pull through purely for commercial market purposes. For the houses to work for the investor, they need to be close to the city. And the government has really to come in strongly and subsidize in one way or another, said Kefa Agwenyi, a developer in Kigali. The high costs of constructing low-cost houses have made property developers shun this segment of the market, pushing many people into unplanned estates About 50 per cent of Kigali residents live in overcrowded, low-quality houses, according to a survey released by Kigali City Authority.There is a shortage of over 400,000 houses. The city has only 223,000 housing units, calling for heavy investment in the sector to satisfy demand.Analysts suggests low-cost housing needs subsidies of upto 40 per cent to make it attract to investors. The subsidies should be in form of free land, constructing roads, connecting water and electricity at the project site, said Agwenyi.Shelter Afrique s debt and equity exposure will total $60 million with financing and equity also being provided by Development Bank of Rwanda. We entered a new strategy cycle in 2015 and part of that was to begin projects of impact and scale, to develop master-planned communities and cities, and Rugarama represents our pivot to such projects, Shelter Afrique managing director James Mugerwa said in a statement. Rwanda is attracting a lot of investment at the moment, and this is the effect of a strong vibrant economy, but beyond Rwanda you can expect more of this from us. We are actively seeking private public partnerships, he added.