The proudest moment for a pupil of Indian classical dance is when she/he steps out on stage for a maiden performance, which is referred to as Arangetram. The dancer displays the intricacies of the art form she has painstakingly learnt.Young talented and armed with graceful, creative and spiritual attributes of Bharat Natyam, Fiya Shah will perform on September 17 at the Oshwal Academy stage Parklands in the presence of her revered Guru Natya Ratna Smt. Gita Umesh, dignitaries, family and friends.Fiya, the daughter of Bejul and Pratik Shah, was exposed to the art form at Gita Umesh s Nrityalaya (institution). The guru has an enviable reputation of being a perfectionist and excels in teaching the traditional dance postures and body movements. Whilst at Nritalaya, Fiya was given an opportunity to participate in ballet and artistically creative shows hosted by the institution. She, I understand, distinguished herself as a versatile and creatively awake prot g .Bharat Natyam is an expressive art of storytelling. The story teller or the performer draws heavily from mythology and communicates with the audience through intricate facial expressions, eye movement, hands and footwork. Fiya is expected to portray the pure traditional art form items with great charm, poise and authenticity. She will then be blessed by her guru and the audience.For decades, Gita Umesh has propagated the classical dance art form in Kenya and abroad. She strongly believes in adherence to the traditional format coupled with crisp clarity of choreography and presentation. Under her tutelage, Fiya, has learnt to and is capable of exposing the intricate philosophy of Bharat Natyam.After the performance, Fiya s parents will treat the audience to a traditional dinner.Meanwhile, Navrang Fine Arts Foundation will present another Indian classical music and dance show which will headline leading Tabla maestro Pandit Suresh Talwalkar. The show, Taal Yatra will feature traditional Indian compositions with dance, vocal and instrumental music and Tabla percussion treats. Watch out for details of the venue and dates of performance in this column next Sunday. email print email print Kenya is lobbying against the planned agreement between US and 12 Asian states for fear of losingPeres will be buried next to Rabin, who was assassinated in 1995 by a Jewish extremist opposed to