Tremaine Aldon Neverson, or Trey Songz to his legion of fans, is in the country for Coke Studio Season Four. The Grammy Award-nominated star seeks to use his voice and platform to spread love. He spoke to Thomas Rajula.How much Swahili have you learnt so far?I have learnt four words: Niaje and how you respond to that is Poa, Karibu, Asante. I also knew another one, but that was yesterday (laughs).This being the land of Obama s father let me welcome you in his language, machieg ni.Machiegni? Thank you.To say thank you, in the same, is ero kamano.Ero ka-ma-no (surprisingly, in his third try he kept saying komano and unsure he drags it out and almost would have passed for a lakeside resident).How was the ride in the matatu, did you get it from the airport too?No. That was actually from my hotel that morning (Wednesday), then we also went in it to have some lunch, and I also took it to come here to the recording sessions.How was it?It was a cool experience. I have never seen anything like that a bus with a sound system like that, with TVs for the videos, it s a cool way to get around town.Would you have your tour bus decked out like that?No. I want my tour bus to be stealth. I want them to think it s a whole bunch of equipment in there, because if you draw attention to it, they ll follow you and you won t get any rest.Tremaine Aldon Neverson, or Trey Songz to his legion of fans, is in the country for Coke Studio Season Four. PHOTO| COURTESYWhat s been your experience in your fist time in Kenya?In my profession, and in a lot of other ways as well, I think you can really judge a place well by the people you meet than by the places you go. I haven t been many places and haven t experienced much rather than being to Coke Studios, to interviews and press conferences, and back to the hotel.But the artistes that I ve met here, plus the people who live here that I ve been working with, have shown me such great hospitality and love; it s a beautiful place. I love the weather; I live in L.A., so it reminds me of that.So you ll be taking a tour after you re done with the sessions?Oh yeah, when I have time. Work is very important to me. These are people s careers and they take their professions very seriously, and even with the level of success I have I am such a perfectionist and I don t want to leave anything undone.Making sure the music is done is the most important thing to me. Though I definitely want to see the town and get out as much as possible, when time allows.How are the mashups coming along?I m eager to get down there and see what s changed since I came for the interviews. I have anxiety about making music and making sure that it s right.When you re having so many moving pieces and people you re meeting for the first time, you have different talents and personalities to deal with. I don t want to bruise anyone s ego; you want to uplift everybody and make them feel that we re on an equal playing field, to make it the best collaborative thing.To have nine artistes on a record is extreme, unless you re DJ Khaled and you re sending out verses to everyone, and no one s in the studio at the same time. It s something that has been very much a learning process for me as well.Before coming here which other African artistes had you heard of or worked with?I recently put out Shabba with Wizkid, in my latest trip to Lagos I worked with Davido as well, KO from South Africa is a friend of mine, and so many other artistes I can t think to name right now.However, I m more excited about the artistes I m working with now so many great voices and styles.Tremaine Aldon Neverson, or Trey Songz to his legion of fans, is in the country for Coke Studio Season Four. PHOTO| COURTESYYou work out a lot, and while your physique is eye candy to the ladies, it also puts pressure on someguys who don t look like you.You ve got to step it up! Working out is not a talent, it s like everything else in life if you want to get better you ve got to work hard at it. If we both go to the gym and I m looking better than you it s because I put more work in it.If you look at life more like a muscle, and not a talent that puts someone in a more opportune place than you, you may not have what the next man has, but if you continue to work hard believing that it will get you what you need to obtain, then nothing can stop you.What s the longest you ve gone without hitting the gym and what s the longest work out period you ve done?I took a whole year off, 2015, mainly because I was doing so much touring. The longest I ever worked out was 16 hours straight, when I was shooting Na Na the music video.Explain the very close-knit relationship you have with your mumShe s the rock of my world. Had it not been for her faith or belief in me, her dedication to being a good mother, I wouldn t be as accomplished or well-mannered as I am, respecting this situation that I ve been given as much as I do.I would have a different view of life right now, if she hadn t dedicated her life to being a good mother. She sacrificed a lot of her dreams to not only make me attain mine, but also to know that I could dream.Should potential girlfriends be worried that they have to impress your mum as well?My mother doesn t dictate who I fall in love with. I would love for the woman in my life to have a relationship with my mother, but that s not a determining factor. I m a mama s boy, all the way, but I m a man!What s her black-don t-crack secret?That s my mama! What else can I tell you? She s black and beautiful. That s what she do, I can t tell you; her swag is on a thousand.What has the US been like in the first non-white-president period that s now coming to an end?It s been surreal. I was able to share that moment (when Obama was announced the winner in 2008) with my grandmother and she cried. She said she thought she d never see this in her lifetime I probably won t see this again, honestly.I think it gives a black child a different sense of belief in yourself. Although it s always been said in America you can be what you want to be, that s never been true.At this point, it teaches them things are not as they seem; there are no limits, but there are also obstacles you may be a black president but you may not be able to change you wish you could. Although, the reality that a black man can reach those heights is a blessing.Black Lives Matter movement is gaining a lot of prominence in the wake of recent killings of black people in police hands, how does that make you feel?Enraged, upset, my heart beats fast, my eyes water up and I start shaking.Have you experienced racism personally? Do you want to point to a specific incident?Yes. Experiencing racism as a black man in America is something you come into contact with very early. I don t want to talk about my experience of it, I like to more so encourage the youth in America, and here, to stand tall and firm in who you are.When people try to deter you from or believing in who you are, stand even firmer. Also stand for the people who are like you, or who represent you. Change can only be found if people accept the reality of a situation, because until then you don t think that anything s wrong.We see athletes and other celebrities coming out in protest but also opposition to their modes of protest.History is repeating itself. Muhammad Ali was condemned and his belt taken away because he said he won t go to war with an opposing country he didn t have a problem with; he had problems with people in his own country.As black folks, we re the pinnacle of entertainment in the sports world as well as the music world. Some people might abandon their responsibility, scared they might lose something; I m not one of them.I speak my voice I let them know strongly when I feel something is just wrong. I want my people to be informed. In the Nate Parker- produced Birth of a Nation I have an incredible song on the soundtrack that I can t wait for my fans to hear.I m also learning about my emotions as these things happen, because I m firmly a man who influences the youth, my people and all others.For me to act like what happens in the world doesn t affect my emotions, the human being that I am, I feel that would be akin to me being negligent to the people that look up to me.You seem like you would be a good dad; what s stopping you from settling down, having a family?I m the greatest uncle ALIVE. I d be an amazing dad; I just don t want to be one with a woman that s not mine. I could have a child tomorrow if I want to. I m 31. It s been my decision not to have a child because I want to be present father, with a woman that I love and can grow a family with. I feel smart enough to hold on until I can do that.What would Tremaine be if he wasn t a musician?I would be successful, whatever that means. Music is what I wanted to do so I never looked at anything else.What would it take to get Trey Songz to perform in Kenya?That sounds like a business conversation. That isn t up to me, he (points to his manager) knows all the schedules and plans everything.What are we expecting from Trey in the next few months? There s the album coming soon, it s called Tremaine, and a tour coming up very shortly after that. I decided after six albums I m ready to title an album after myself. I feel like I know myself the best I ve probably ever known myself, although we never stop growing. I m at the best knowledgeable and realistic perception point of what my life is. In this album, I m being vulnerable about love, family, things that hurt me and things that I love to do. I m giving a lot of myself in this project.Quick fire questions1. What s been the longest sleep you had?Between 12 and 14 hours.2. How many pairs of socks do you own?I wear new socks every day.3. How many caps/hats do you own?I don t know how many. I have eight caps with me, and I m only here six days.4. What was in your luggage?I have six suitcases of sauce (swaggy clothes and accessories), red sauce. I was dripping sauce all through the airport on my way here.5. What would throw you off a girl if she was hot?If she smells bad. Hygiene. email print email print Tremaine Aldon Neverson, or Trey Songz to his legion of fans, is in the country for Coke Studio Season Four. Mr Odinga said his party is not keen on going into the polls as a coalition. The first batch of doctors will be promoted by October 7.