Kenya Shujaa skipper Andrew Amonde has said they will be looking to thrive under their favourites tag and deliver the Safari Sevens title to Kenyans.The hosts take on minnow Rwanda in their opening duel on Saturday at Safaricom Stadium, Kasarani from 10.50am.The top seeded Shujaa then tackle Cape Warriors at 3.14pm before wrapping up their Pool A outing against Portugal at 8pm. Portugal are arguably Shujaa s toughest opponents.Shujaa, who are the 2000 and 2013 champions, lost to Samurai International 19-20 in last year s final at the same venue. Samurai, who are seeking their second title, start their quest against Red Wailers from South Africa at 10.28am before meeting Morocco at 2.30pm.They will meet wrap up their Pool C battle against Zimbabwe, who finished fourth last year, at 7.16pm.England Saxons, who won Plate last year, look favourites to qualify from Pool B alongside Western Province, who won bronze third last year. Yes we are favourites and our dream is to win the tournament by virtue of having a good blend of talented young and experienced players, said Amonde. I have told the boys we can only go one better from last season if we work hard and get everything right. Amonde said the tournament was aimed at giving new players in the team a chance to showcase their talent as well as build up towards the start of the 2016/ 2017 World Rugby Sevens Series. Amonde said there were some exciting new players coming into the system for instances Brian Tanga of Kabras. This is their chance to prove their mettle, he said adding that even though they had not trained for long most of the players were fit, having played for their clubs at the National Series.Tanga, Alvin Otieno, Jeff Oluoch, Nelson Oyoo, Eden Agero, Cyprian Kuto and Leonard Mugaisi are making a comeback after missing out at Rio Olympic Games. Some of the key players missing out are former Kenya Sevens skipper Humphrey Kayange and his brother Collins Injera, Biko Adema and Oscar Ouma.Samurai International captain Ignacio Martins, who is making his fifth appearance at Safari Sevens said: We are under pressure to perform and under pressure to enjoy the game of rugby. Results will just come along if we work hard. Martin said he was glad to lead an exciting squad that had a blend of Scottish, English and Kenyan talent. Martin and Francesco Hernandez played for Spain at the Rio Olympic Games.The side also boasts of World Rugby Sevens Series stars like James Fleming, Nick McLennan, Scott Wright, Jamie Johnstone and Doughie Fife from Scotland. The team also has former Scotland Sevens players Michael Fedo and Darren Gillespie. Samurai coach Chad Shepherd said expectations were high to defend their title. It won t be easy with most of the Africa teams looking strong like Zimbabwe and Shujaa, said Shepherd. email print email print Kenya Sevens dismantled Nigeria 33-5 in their opening duel of the Africa Rugby Cup Sevens at Safaricom Stadium, Kasarani on Friday. However, Somalia wants the ICJ to reject Kenya s preliminary objections. Duale at the same time told the CJ nominee that he must respect the three arms of government.