WASHINGTON What happens if a candidate for the White House is forced to quit the race? Who steps up to fill their shoes?It s a question suddenly in the spotlight as Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton battles a case of pneumonia that left her feeling so poorly she abruptly left a high-profile 9/11 memorial ceremony a day earlier.The former secretary of state, 68, was resting at home in Chappaqua, New York and cancelled appearances at events scheduled for Monday and Tuesday in California. (Clinton) continues to feel better, but intends to remain at home today, following her doctor s recommendation to rest, campaign spokesman Mr Nick Merrill said.The US Constitution gives no guidance on instances when a candidate is unable to finish a political race. The procedures are found by delving into the internal regulations of the political parties.Article two, section seven of the Democratic Party bylaws states that a special meeting to fill a vacancy on the National ticket shall be held on the call of the Chairperson. Republican Party regulations describe a similar procedure.At the Democratic Party gathering, the decision would be based on a majority vote by those present. But there s little precedent to guide their choices.Although Clinton is expected to make a full recovery from what appears to be a routine illness, analysts have floated names of those who could take on the party mantle should she be forced to drop out.They are: Clinton running mate Tim Kaine, grassroots darling and Clinton s primary challenger Bernie Sanders, and current Vice President Joe Biden.David Lublin, a professor of government at American University, said Democratic party officials could choose anyone who meets the criteria to serve in the nation s highest office. It would certainly would be uncharted territory, he said, adding that in his opinion, the most logical choice would be Mr Kaine, followed by Mr Sanders and the popular Biden.Jeanne Zaino, a professor of political science at Iona College in New York, said the parties have kept the process purposely vague because it gives them the opportunity to make the best decision, rather than tie their hands with some kind of process that would give them a nominee they will not be comfortable with. Both experts were doubtful that Mrs Clinton would exit the race over health concerns. I don t expect Clinton to step down. She has an illness that is treatable, Prof Lublin said.Added Prof Zaino: This has been such a crazy election season, I wouldn t been surprised if anything happened, but that is something I am not expecting at all unless her health is far worse than we have been led to believe. VIDEO SHOWED HER WOBBLINGMrs Clinton s departure from the 9/11 ceremony at New York s Ground Zero on Sunday, captured on amateur video, showed her wobbling and being held up by members of her entourage as she got into a vehicle.The episode has fuelled fresh speculation and conspiracy theories on the Internet, already awash with unsubstantiated rumours Mrs Clinton may have a brain tumour, Parkinson s or dementia.The root of the persistent claims about Clinton s health lies in 2012, towards the end of her tenure as secretary of state.A stomach virus and dehydration prompted her to faint, causing what her doctor said was a concussion. Doctors said they found a blood clot on the brain. Clinton later received the all-clear. In recent US presidential history, there s been only one case of a candidate dropping out.Senator Thomas Eagleton, who was the running mate of Democratic nominee George McGovern in the 1972 race, was forced to quit after it was revealed that he suffered from depression.Meanwhile, Mrs Clinton was set to get a boost on Wednesday, when President Barack Obama hits the campaign trail in Philadelphia to support her bid to replace him. Her husband, former president Bill Clinton, will campaign for her in Las Vegas on Wednesday.Facing intensifying scrutiny about her health, the Democrat will also make new disclosures of medical records and data, as her team acknowledged it stumbled when it failed to transparently alert the press and public about Clinton s condition over the weekend. I just didn t think it was going to be that big a deal, Mrs Clinton told CNN when asked why she kept her pneumonia diagnosis on Friday under wraps until Sunday. It s just the kind of thing that if it happens to you and you re a busy, active person, you keep moving forward. Discussing the event itself, she explained: I felt dizzy and I did lose my balance for a minute. Clinton vowed to return to the campaign trail within the next couple of days. Clinton, 68, fell ill at a 9/11 memorial event in New York and was seen wobbling as she was helped into her vehicle, forcing her campaign to disclose she had been diagnosed with the acute respiratory infection.UNDISCLOSED CONDITIONThe incident captured on amateur video gave her Republican rival Donald Trump, 70, a new opening to question her fitness for the nation s highest office as the race heats up with eight weeks until Election Day. There s no other undisclosed condition. The pneumonia is the extent of it, Clinton spokesman Brian Fallon told MSNBC.On CNN, Clinton initially said that she has twice gotten dehydrated and felt dizzy over the past five years, then said it had been a few times. Her health woes forced Clinton to scrap her California fundraising trip Monday and Tuesday and a scheduled campaign event Wednesday in Nevada. In his first public comments since Clinton abruptly left Sunday s Ground Zero ceremony, an unusually restrained Trump offered her his wishes for a rapid recovery.But he also suggested the former secretary of state s health issues were of longer standing than admitted. Something is going on but I just hope she gets well and gets back on the trail, and we ll be seeing her at the debate in two weeks, the Republican told Fox News.The unexpected turn of events has turned a conservative angle of attack into a serious line of questioning about Clinton s health and why it took two days to reveal the pneumonia diagnosis. Antibiotics can take care of pneumonia. What s the cure for an unhealthy penchant for privacy that repeatedly creates unnecessary problems? asked David Axelrod, a former White House aide to Barack Obama.Clinton admitted: If we weren t fast enough, you know, I ve talked to my staff, we, you know, take responsibility for that. But she quickly insisted she has been far more transparent than Trump. The information is out there. You can t say the same thing about Donald Trump, she said. The American people deserve to know what he s up to and what he is hiding. email print email print Clinton was forced to cancel a California fundraising trip on Monday and Tuesday. More officers have been deployed to the area to carry out air and ground surveillance.They told the court that the former minister has been making statements that are prejudicial to