The move by Mt Kenya elders to reach out to their Kamba counterparts last week has added impetus to President Uhuru Kenyatta s re-election campaign, with the region dominated by Wiper Party politics expressing mixed reactions.The group met the Akamba Clans Governing Council of Elders at Masinga Dam Resort on Thursday last week and said they wanted to solidify the two communities unity for a common political destiny. We are reaching out to the Akamba community and to everybody. We are going to help as much as we can to correct the political leadership. If you are not doing it right, we cannot sit and watch you go astray, said Gikuyu, Meru and Embu Association (Gema) chairman Lawi Imathiu.Akamba council chairman Boniface Kilonzo, who read the resolutions reached at the meeting, said the elders were working with the Jubilee administration.On Sunday, Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua supported the initiative, saying it was good for enhancing cohesion among communities. The unity between Gema and Akamba elders is good. I urge other communities to follow suit, Dr Mutua told the Daily Nation.Former Kibwezi MP Kalembe Ndile, speaking after a fundraiser at St Claire Catholic Church in Athi River, also praised the unity call.The meeting followed a visit to the region by Murang a Governor Mwangi wa Iria with five MPs from the Jubilee Party after its Kasarani launch. The politicians were at Matuu Africa Inland Church in Yatta Constituency, Machakos, for a fundraiser but took the opportunity to campaign for President Kenyatta s re-election.NO TURNING BACKThe MPs from the region, Francis Mwangangi (Yatta), Itwiku Mbai (Masinga) and Rachael Nyamai (Kitui South), who joined the Jubilee Party, said there was no turning back and they would work with the Jubilee administration without fear.But Wiper party organising secretary and Kathiani MP Robert Mbui, and a member, Mr Lawrence Maingi, said the defectors had committed political suicide.Elsewhere, two leaders from Ukambani warned the community against joining the Jubilee Party led by President Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto. Former Lands and Urban Development Cabinet Secretary Charity Ngilu and the Wiper nominated MP, Bishop Robert Mutemi, said Jubilee had nothing to offer the community.The two were speaking on Saturday at Nzawa market in Mwingi West Constituency during a political and prayer rally dubbed Badilisha Campaign which was seen to drum up support for Mrs Ngilu s Kitui governorship ambitions. She accused the ruling coalition, which appointed her Cabinet secretary following a 2013 pre-election pact, of short-changing her.Mrs Ngilu said leaders wanting to join Jubilee from the region should learn from her predicament and avoid the party. email print email print The elders said they would request a meeting with President Kenyatta to explain their concerns. Until yesterday, he was the presiding Judge of the Court of Appeal in Kisumu. It also shows that 13 per cent of Kenyans are addicted to alcohol.