They say that golf is a game for the rich. Lately however, some poor habits have found their way to golf courses. The rich traditions are slowly being elbowed out to make room for some gaucheness. The problem is that some of the current golfing leadership were not properly inducted to the rich traditions of the game. How can they then be expected to propagate ideas that they have very little knowledge of?It is slowly becoming the acceptable thing to judge a person s knowledge of Rules of Golf by their playing handicap. I was for example put in an awkward situation at the beginning of last week when a gentleman called me insisting that I must register for the Karen Challenge. The Union officials must set a good example by participating in the GOTY (Golfer of the Year) events he said. I can t I tried to explain No Vincent! he interjected as he went on to tell me how I needed to participate in GOTY events. I eventually managed to tell him that I play off a high handicap of 20. And no, I am not referring to the room temperature. I am squarely in the C division. Go ahead and make fun of the children s division . One gentleman when introducing me a few months ago made fun of my handicap by saying that I write better about golf than I play. I didn t know whether to take it as a compliment. The Karen Challenge, an event that has in the past attracted stars like Louis Oosthuizen (when he was still an amateur), has a handicap limit of 9. This is as it should be for the top events. John Karichu from Limuru went on to win this year s event after a playoff with this year s Amateur Match play champion Sujan Shah. The reputation of Karen Country Club as Kenya s leading club can be judged by the fact that it has always attracted both local and international stars to play in it s tournaments. This dates back to the 1950s when it attracted The Open Champions like Bobby Locke and Peter Thomson to give exhibition matches on the course. The reputation of many low handicappers in as far as the Rules and etiquette of Golf is sadly wanting. As a golfer, it doesn t matter who you are or how well you play, the etiquette of the game requires that you show consideration for all others on the course at all times. Irrespective of how competitive you are, demonstrate courtesy and sportsmanship at all times. This is the spirit of the game of golf.Here are some of the traditions of the game that slowly being forgotten:1. Starting time arrive at the tee well ahead of your starting time. To be on time in the game, you have to arrive at least 10 minutes before your starting time2. Before starting - shake hands and introduce yourself to the golfers that you will be playing with. Show them the ball that you will be playing and the identification mark that you have put on it.3. On the course try not to distract your playing partners. Do not stand close to the other players or directly behind them as they are trying to make their shot. Don t cast your shadow on their line of putt. Avoid moving or talking when the player is making a stroke. Never walk ahead of your playing partners. This is both dangerous and discourteous. 4. Shouting on the course the only time shouting on the course is required is when you hit a wayward shot that may endanger someone. It is customary to shout fore as a warning to those ahead.5. Don t hold the course your position on the course is immediately behind the group in front of you and not immediately in front of the group behind you. Try and keep up with the group in front and if you fall behind, let the team behind you to go through. There is nothing worse than playing behind a slow group.6. Disappearing act never disappear to the next tee before everyone in your group has holed out on the green. Show interest in how your fellow competitor is playing, especially if you are marking his card.7. Shake hands after the game win, lose or tie, shake hands with the people you play with after the game. It is customary to remove your cap when doing this. Thank them for the game.Having good etiquette does not mean that you do not want to win. Play hard, but play fair. Show respect to your fellow golfers. Every golfer needs to polish up on their knowledge of the etiquette and the Rules of Golf. A lower handicap is not always an indication of knowledge of the rules. Here s some advice: If your handicap is above 20, watch your swing. If your handicap is between 10 and 20, watch your work. If your handicap is below 10, watch your home. email print email print Peres will be buried next to Rabin, who was assassinated in 1995 by a Jewish extremist opposed to Ms Tutui said the court would have given orders for immediate realisation of the rule.