Gor Mahia chairman Ambrose Rachier has said the club elections would be held in December.Rachier also re-assured the club faithful that the secretariat is working round the clock to ensure the club meets all the basic requirements for Caf Club Licensing so that the team can be cleared to take part in continental competitions next year. The K Ogalo chairman, who has been in office for eight years, spoke at a press conference he called to address complaints over the delayed polls and the indefinite postponement of a Special General Meeting that had been scheduled for October 2. We can only hold elections once we have complied with the new Sports Act. One of the key requirements in the Act is we have to put in place a constitution that meets certain parameters, said Rachier. That is why we have come up with an amended draft constitution and we have invited registered members to send representatives to scrutinise it before we can adopt it.APPROVE CONSTITUTION Once the new constitution has been debated and approved, we would convene an Annual General Meeting, where the elections would be held. We expect to conduct the elections in December, he added. Rachier s statement comes three days after a section of branch chairmen convened a meeting and issued a 30-day ultimatum for the office to call elections or vacate office. The club chairmen were irked by the move to postpone the Special General Meeting.Rachier rubbished claims that his office was deliberately delaying the elections, dismissing the individuals who issued the ultimatum as imposters who were neither recognised nor registered by the club. When we convened the meeting last week, we noted some serious omissions in that the time and venue of the meeting were not specified. The members also asked for more time to scrutinise the document and we agreed to push the meeting forward, he said. I would however like to state that the people who made that statement are not even registered branch chairmen. We have only 95 registered branches and we have asked that all those send three representatives each to go through the document, he said. The current Gor Mahia office has come under pressure in recent times to call for elections after their tenure expired at the beginning of this year. email print email print Gor Mahia branch chairmen have issued a 30-day ultimatum to the current office to either hold club elections or vacate office.The award came despite voters&#039; shock rejection of the terms of a historic deal he reached lastThe Democratic candidate has a 3.2-point advantage over her Republican nemesis, according to the