The par 73 Kitale Golf Club will host the inaugural betway Corporate Challenge which ushers the betting company into the world of golf sponsorship.It is the first time betway is sponsoring a golf event. A field of over 100 golfers are expected to fight it out for a number of prizes being offered in the event which follows the Mt Elgon Flowers and Nation Media Challenge held two weeks ago.Club captain Ben Cheruiyot said the course was in great condition and like last weekend, some high scores are expected. The club hosted the Mt Elgon Flowers tournament last weekend.EXCELLENT FORMCheruiyot, who said he had been working on his driver at the range lately, will go all out for the top prize. Last weekend, Ian Nzomo carded an excellent 43 points to emerge the overall winner. Other players who featured in the prize list included the club s leading golfer Philip Shiharsy playing off handicap three who carded two over par 75 to win the gross prize. Other players to watch this weekend include Ali Babuh and Phylis Kisuna.Meanwhile, Kenya Ladies Open Champion Kellie Gachaga is back in action this weekend. She is among a star field heading to Sigona Golf Club for the Kenya Ladies Golf Union Strokeplay Championship. Former ladies champion Mary Karano, home player Jane Njau, Muthaiga s Naomi Wafula and a host of the Rose Naliaka Academy girls who retained the Nancy Millar trophy at Karen last weekend will also be in action. They will be led by Sarah Khanyereri currently enjoying excellent form while others will include Agnes Nyakio, Ashley Awuor and Aisha Duba. In Kiambu, a field of 100 players will be battling it out for the Karume Cup, one of the top events at the club. Most of the leading players, including low handicappers Michael Karanga, John Ngure and lady golfer Joyce Wanjiru are drawn.Down at the Coast, the par 72 Leisure Lodge Golf and Resort course will host the annual Prime Bank tournament, which has however attracted a small field though there being no events at Nyali and at the other Coast based clubs, more players are likely to list their names through post entries. email print email print The firearm, a G3 rifle, was stolen by the gangsters on a motorcycle after killing the officer inKenyan officials have repeatedly suggested during the past year that direct air links with the US