The intricate metaphors, word play and poetry that made you memorise every word of a favourite song are all but gone now. The standards of rap and even RnB music have deteriorated so much that even industry bigwigs are outraged.During a GNN talk show episode, rap legend Snoop Dogg and rapper 50 Cent took issue with the new trend of sound-alike rappers. They recalled that, back in the day, you made it through unique flow and creativity, but all that is largely gone.Kendrick Lamar is viewed as one of the best lyricists of this generation, yet even he is having a hard time. Thanks to a verse he dropped on Big Sean s 2013 hit Control , the song has been described by Rolling Stone magazine as one of the most important hip-hop songs of the last decade .But the symbolism he applied on that single verse was so misunderstood that he is reported to have asked if he should dumb down his lyrics so people would understand him.While we have rappers who are conscious and actually make sense, they are a dying breed, at least on radio. Mumble rap artistes like Lil Yatchy have been on the receiving end of the backlash, with some terming their music as idiotic . On their part, the young blood remain defiant, claiming that it is their time to shine so old stars should stay in retirement.This beef is not new. In 2008, hip-hop legend Ice-T accused Soulja Boy of single-handedly killing hip hop . The remarks featured on DJ Ciscos Urban Legend mixtape, along with a few other comments about Hip-Hop, sparked a classic old-school-new school beef.A study by Andrew Powell-Morse revealed just how dumbed down lyrics have become over the past few years. The study analysed the reading levels for 225 songs that spent three or more weeks atop Billboard s Pop, Country, Rock, and Hip-Hop song charts.COUNTRY MUSIC HAS THE MOST INTELLIGENT LYRICSWhereas the lyrics for chart toppers in 2005 were at a par with the reading ability of third and fourth grade children, by 2014 they had dropped to second and third grade. Going by genres, his study showed that the most intelligent lyrics were in country music, followed by pop, rock and roll and then RnB and hip-hop.On the local scene, Kenyan artistes have not escaped this criticism. Veteran gospel artistes Reuben Kigame has even taken to social media to castigate this new crop of artistes.He contends that gospel music should address the everyday issues of life and give hope and direction. In his view, anything that deviates from that is not gospel music.He says: Our lyrics as Kenyan musicians are at an all-time low. We use fewer and fewer words which mean little, coupled with unnecessary repetition, and the celebration of filth. Some musicians who write songs for the youth should be jailed for at least 10 years for the amount of filth they push into music. In his analysis, he decries a golden age when even secular music had meaning. Let s not feed our youth with nothing but decadent sexual lyrics and lust and then expect to see responsible, hardworking people. Even the secular artistes need this rebuke. Where are songs such as Maroon Commandos s Uvivu ni adui mkubwa wa ujenzi wa taifa? Where is Someni vijana, muongeze pia bidii? Where is Kuja twende safari tukaone wanyama simba na wenzake...? he poses.KINGS OF DUMB LYRICSOne of the people receiving the most backlash for dumb lyrics is rapper Timmy T Dat. Whenever someone wants to make a point about how dumb music has become, Timmy T Dat s song Dus Nyau and Haitosi are always on top. Others always being blamed are Kristof, P-Unit, The Kansoul, Jimmy Gait, Kymo and Stigah.Despite his songs being mega hits, Timmy has been on the receiving end of a lot of hate. But that does not give him sleepless nights. My music has depth but people don t take time to really analyse it because the media paints me as a bad boy. I don t just release music, I put in different flavours like mashing up Kwaito beats with a Kenyan touch in my last song Inaweza . I respect the pioneers; they are our mentors, so I listen to positive criticism and see how to improve. He argues that new school cannot be like the old because they are catering to a whole different generation so they have to change to maintain their relevance. My lines just come to me, I don t plan releases or keep people waiting; I m spontaneous. You have to keep on changing and growing with time, you cannot stay the same way. All my songs are hits, so there is something I am doing right. I respect people s opinion but there is a thin line between hate and positive criticism. Having weathered several musical storms, Jua Cali is today a driving force of Kenya s urban music. He is perhaps solely responsible for the rise of Genge style of rap. While he is hailed by many, he is also on the receiving end of criticism for churning out nonsensical music. There is music that I just cannot listen to, yet this new generation totally loves it, he admits. Everyone comes into the game with their own perception. Every new generation has its own style so you really cannot judge. Music should come naturally to you, do not do it for money or fame but passion. I do not force issues, I just write what I feel; that is why I have lasted this long, he says.For years, gospel duo Kymo and Stigah released what many people considered as serious music. But it was their 2016 comical hit, Thitima Anthem that brought them to the fore.In the past month, they have seen the song grow into a hit, attracting praise and reproach in equal measure. When it first came out, some analysts dismissed it for its perceived shallow lyrical content and lack of authenticity. Barely a week after its release, their comical commentary on Bible stories has become a permanent fixture in many playlists. The track is extremely simple and the Luo accent hilarious, but the duo maintains they kept true to the biblical content. Comedy is just a tool we use to preach; our song is entirely based on the Bible, Kymo says. People dismissed our song because of the comedy but when they dug a little deeper, it led them to study the Bible. Things have changed, the content of the gospel is the same but the context we live in is different. We wanted to present the gospel in a way that relates to our generation and it worked. It looks like nobody will agree that their music is dumb but this usually happens whenever new artistes take over and the older generation starts complaining about the content. It s a recurring theme. email print email print Each year our phones get smarter and smarter, but not so the lyrics to the songs we listen to; these seem to get dumber and louder. The group has also continued to carry out deadly attacks on targets across the border in Kenya. The driver lost control, veering off the road.