Harambee Starlets coach David Ouma has said the absence of striker Mwanahalima Dogo Adam is a big blow to the team ahead of the Cecafa tournament that begins this weekend in Jinja, Uganda. Adam, a Form four student at St Johns Kaloleni Secondary School, asked to be omitted from the squad to allow her time to prepare and sit her final exams this November, meaning that she will also miss the Africa Women s Cup of Nations in Cameroon. However, Ouma said that even though he will miss her silky skills on the pitch, he is grooming other players to take up the role. I remember when Dogo was called up to the national team for the first time she scored on her debut. This year, she scored two goals away against Algeria in our Afcon qualifier, and there is no doubt that she is a very good player, Ouma said. When you have Dogo in the team, you are sure that you have a good chance of winning just about every ball in a one-on-one situation. She is also very good with crosses and I must say that it came as a huge blow for us when we realised that she will not be part of us in this journey. We however have recruited four new players who are equally competitive. I am working on building their mental strength and I believe that we can make them even better players, Ouma said.The Sofapaka coach was speaking on Thursday after taking the girls through their paces in their final training session at the Utalii College grounds. On the Cecafa tournament, Ouma reiterated that his primary target is to qualify for the knockout stages. My aim is to maintain consistency. This team has had perfect preparations and we have the ability to make it out of the group stages. That is what I would like us to achieve first and then we can try our luck in the knockout stage, he said. The Kenyan girls are scheduled to leave the country today for Uganda where they will begin their quest for the inaugural regional women s title against the hosts on Sunday. Starlets will then face Burundi and Zanzibar on Tuesday and Thursday respectively. FULL SQUADJacky Ogol, Enez Mango, Vivian Corazon, Jackeline Akoth, Maureen Ater, Caroline Kiget, Brenda Achieng, Terry Ooko, Lilian Adera, Margaret Nyambura, Purity Ngesa, Samantha Akinyi, Vivian Akinyi.Lilian Awuor, Ann Aluoch, Wendy Achieng, Elizabeth Ambogo, Christine Nafula, Irene Ogutu, Cherise Avilia, Dorcas Shikobe, Caroline Anyango, Mercy Achieng, Neddy Atieno, Essie Akida, Dorcas Anyango, Mary Kinuthia, Sharon Aluoch. email print email print Peres will be buried next to Rabin, who was assassinated in 1995 by a Jewish extremist opposed to Ms Tutui said the court would have given orders for immediate realisation of the rule.