It was a show of might, pomp and colour on Friday as the party to be used by President Uhuru Kenyatta to seek re-election next year was ratified by delegates, paving way for its launch today.An estimated 12,000 delegates from 12 parties, some who were forced to remain outside the 5,000 sitter indoor arena at the Safaricom s Kasarani National Stadium, under the stewardship of Deputy President William Ruto, unanimously agreed to join the new Jubilee Party after folding up affiliate parties on Thursday.Enthusiasm, hope and promise rented the air as leaders lined up various projects and goodies for them on the way if President Kenyatta retained the seat under the new party. The arena was filled to capacity and hundreds were locked out as they could not find a place to sit inside. The venue was conspicuous with all sorts of Jubilee Party s gear including miniature flags, t-shirts, scarves and caps as jubilant members savoured them.Some members of the opposition officially ditched their parties and joined the ceremony saying they were tired of being in the opposition.Although it appeared well-planned, the event almost hit a hurdle early in the morning when delegates refused to be addressed after complaining that they had not been paid promised allowances.Efforts by leaders, among them Elgeyo-Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, MPs Johnson Sakaja (nominated) and Ferdinand Waititu (Kabete) to beseech them to cool down fell flat and it took the intervention of Mr Ruto for them to agree to proceed with the meeting. Mr Ruto, who had been scheduled to address them last, stepped in and termed the delegates concerns kitu kidogo (small thing) saying Jubilee was a big party capable of sorting out the issue. He also reminded them that they were not only in Jubilee but in government as well. Nimeambiwa kuna mambo ndogo ndogo hapa (I have been told about the small issues you have raised). I would like to tell you on behalf of the President that they will be sorted out today. We are not just a party. We are the government, Mr Ruto told them.After temperatures went down, the day s programme resumed. Mr Ruto, who expects to take over from the President when he retires in 2022, was the chief guest in the penultimate event that clears the way for a grand ceremony to be presided by the Head of State today.Addressing the delegates, Mr Ruto pitched for the party that brought together 12 others saying the best way to unite the country was through a merged one rather than smaller outfits. JUBILEE'S ACHIEVEMENTSHe said the days of briefcase parties, which were mainly tribe-based, were gone and that it was the time for national ones that house all Kenyans despite their tribe, gender, jobs and religion. The DP cited previous efforts by the President and he to bring together warring Kenyans dating back to 2012 when he said they had a candid talk on how to improve the lives of Kenyans. This is a blessed and historical meeting. What is happening here is historical. We have brought together different political parties and Kenyans from all parts of the country to unite this event is a culmination of many years of nationalist, social transformative agenda for our country, he said. The merger, he said, was the outcome of their efforts promising a better Kenya with a single party led by the two of them. The government has faced stinging accusations from the opposition led by ODM leader Raila Odinga who has challenged Mr Kenyatta s administration to stop giving promises in the fourth year of its term, but instead tell Kenyans what they have done since they got in power. Mr Ruto took up the challenge telling Mr Odinga that they were ready to lay bare what they had achieved so far.He used the occasion to promote some of the projects done by the government promising to give an in-depth analysis later.He said the government had increased by 35 per cent the capitation of primary school children under the Free Primary Education programme. On electricity connection, Mr Ruto said over 5.3 million Kenyans up from 2.3 million in 2013 were now enjoying the utility. Devolution is working under the stewardship of Jubilee. I want to congratulate the governors who are using the devolved money as is supposed to be spent On 1st of June 2017 a train using the standard gauge railways will carry the first passengers from Nairobi to Mombasa. You better book a seat in advance, he told the cheering crowd.The DP said there were many other good things coming up including laptops for Class One pupils before the end of the year and more tarmac roads.Leaders, who spoke, were not short of praise for the government and its two leaders with most saying the country had witnessed more development than under previous regimes. The story of Jubilee is the story of changing the paradigm of our politics. From today, it does not matter your tribe or religion, it does not matter whether you are a woman, youth or elderly what now matters is what contribution you make towards improving our country, said Senate Majority Leader Kithure Kindiki.INCLUDE WOMENHis National Assembly counterpart Aden Duale said they had cleared the way for the two leaders to rule the country for the next 15 years. We want the President to retire in 2022 knowing that he has united all Kenyans. We are telling our other colleagues (in the opposition) that the dice is cast. What we are witnessing today is a journey that will make President Kenyatta re-elected in 2017 and Mr Ruto in 2022, said Mr Duale.With the new party, they said, President Kenyatta would trounce his opponents without much struggle. I am not as foolish as I look. We have done our arithmetic and I can tell you Jubilee will win with a landslide in 2017 and in 2022. Jubilee is the party that will bring prosperity and unity to the people of Kenya, said Meru Senator Kiraitu Murungi.Speaking on behalf of women MPs, Runyenjes MP Cecily Mbarire warned Jubilee leaders against sidelining women saying they should get equal opportunities. We have agreed that we are going out to fight for all the elective posts without fear because Jubilee will give us space to do it. We are going to fill the county assemblies, National Assembly, Senate and the Council of Governors. There is no turning back. As Jubilee women, we are not going to be flower girls we want to be on the decision tables and powerful positions of the new party, said Ms Mbarire. email print email print Peres will be buried next to Rabin, who was assassinated in 1995 by a Jewish extremist opposed to Ms Tutui said the court would have given orders for immediate realisation of the rule.