The National Olympics Committee of Kenya (Nock) has denied claims that kits meant for the Kenyan team in the Rio Games were stolen. At a meeting with the National Assembly's Labour and Social Welfare Committee on Tuesday, the team, led by athletics legend Kipchoge Keino, said the kits were supplied for 18 disciplines that participated in the global games. Mr Keino explained that Kenya participated in five of the 18 disciplines, saying the rest of the kits were not used.Kenya was represented in athletics, boxing, rugby, judo, and javelin. The [uniforms were] in the store until the time the police came in, he added.Mr Keino handed over a set of incomplete documents showing how the kits were distributed to the athletes. Stephen arap Soi, the head of Kenya's Rio team, said some athletes had individual contracts for kits and they therefore did not collect theirs from the officials. The committee requested details on all the accommodation arrangements and how the kits were distributed. NIKEThere have been reports that Nike, the official supplier, provided 1,900 kits. The discovery of kits at Nock s offices in a raid by officers from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations appeared to confirm the allegations. Kits for Kenya s Olympics team are supplied by Nike on a contract, which the MPs also asked to see. When Sports Cabinet Secretary Hassan Wario met the committee earlier Tuesday, he said John Capriotti, a senior Nike official, had expressed concerns about the way the supply of kits was handled. Mr Wario said the official had suggested that the kits be handed over to the athletes directly. The minister said he asked to see the contract, but Mr Capriotti said he would have to ask Nike s lawyers about that, which he interpreted to mean he was reluctant to share it. He said he would write an official letter to Nike over the matter. The parliamentary team is investigating the Rio fiasco.Former Olympian Elijah Lagat, now the MP for Chesumei, said the supply of kits to athletics has always been a contentious issue. email print email print The sports minister says he hopes to meet representatives of the IOC soon. Ms Tutui said the court would have given orders for immediate realisation of the rule. But the passport was not stamped, meaning he did not pass through the immigration desk.