The National Assembly is Thursday afternoon set to pass the two laws proposed by a joint parliamentary committee intended to ensure the next elections are free, fair and credible and prevent candidates from changing parties close to the elections. The Election Laws (Amendment) Bill and the Election Offences Bill are set to undergo the Third Reading, which is preceded by the Committee of the Whole House, the stage at which amendments are debated and voted on. There are no amendments on the Order Paper posted on the website of Parliament Thursday morning, suggesting that the MPs who want restrictions on party-hopping removed are yet to prepare their changes. (READ: Ruto whips MPs to back changes in election laws)Before the debate starts, National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi is expected to rule on whether changes can be made to the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill after the recommendation to restrict party-hopping was removed from the report adopted last week. Kisumu West MP Olago Aluoch, who is seen as the intellectual leader of the MPs who want restrictions on party-hopping lifted, Wednesday asked Temporary Speaker Christopher Omulele to rule on the matter. The House should be told clearly that these Bills can be amended on the floor in line with the Standing Orders, said Mr Aluoch.He said that with the House already having deleted the recommendation in the report adopted by the National Assembly last week, there was no point in having them in the Bill. A thorough and clear reading of clauses eight to 12 of the Bill shows that a member who is dissatisfied with the nominations or wishes to stand as an independent candidate cannot do so. He is locked in, said Mr Aluoch.He said the timelines set out in the Bill would mean that a candidate s constitutional rights would be breached.Mr Omulele said the decision would be made by the Speaker: This is a fairly weighty matter. There will be a ruling on that before the Third Stage. READ THE CONSTITUTIONOn Wednesday night, Mr Muturi told MPs they ought to read the Constitution clearly on the matter. Everyone who waves the Constitution should be aware of Chapter Four on the Bill of Rights and especially Article 38 on political rights, which includes the right to participate in the activities of a political party, said Mr Muturi during the Second Reading of the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill. Last week, Deputy Speaker Dr Joyce Laboso ruled that placing the restrictions on candidates would be in breach of the Constitution. Specifically, the recommendation barring candidates seeking political offices from changing parties was observed to be against the Bill of Rights as enshrined in the Constitution. The agreement with the report would therefore be an attempt to right an obvious wrong, she said.Dr Laboso then referred to Article 36 of the Constitution, which states that: Every person has the right to freedom of association, which includes the right to form, join or participate in the activities of an association of any kind. A person shall not be compelled to join an association of any kind. Ranged against Mr Aluoch and supporters of the removal of restrictions on party-hopping will be the machinery of the Jubilee Alliance, whose members were rallied to back the Bill as it is by Deputy President William Ruto at a meeting Wednesday morning. email print email print The first batch of doctors will be promoted by October 7. The nine IEBC commissioners will know their individual payouts on Monday.