SWANSEASergio Aguero scored twice as Manchester City made it 10 wins in as many games this season with a 3-1 victory away to Swansea in the Premier League on Saturday.Aguero marked his return to action with two well-taken goals for Pep Guardiola's league leaders after serving a three-game ban for throwing an elbow in last month's victory over West Ham.The Argentinian striker opened the scoring in the ninth minute and he made it 2-1 25 minutes from time before Raheem Sterling beat Lukasz Fabianski in the 77th minute at the Liberty Stadium as City beat Swansea for the second time in a week after their EFL Cup success.A swift move on the right, a clever turn from Aguero and the visitors were a goal to the good. Swansea came close to levelling matters in the 12th minute when Kyle Naughton, playing out of position at left back, found himself one on one with Claudio Bravo, the City goalkeeper.Bravo pulled off a decent save before City cleared. However, a minute later and the Swans were level. Gylfi Sigurdsson poked a ball through to Fernando Llorente, who having been played onside by John Stones, beat Bravo with a stunning volley from 16 yards.With the ball at their feet, Swansea showed decent quality. They were confident in moving through the gears and lacked only one aspect the final delivery.Still, it was enough to keep City on their toes. Bacary Sagna was shown the yellow card for man-handling Kyle Naughton and Sterling was fortunate to escape similar punishment when he tripped Angel Rangel.SILVA CHEERSAlthough Swansea were causing one or two problems at the right end, they almost conceded a second 11 minutes from half time. Kevin de Bruyne was sent through by Ilkay Gundogan, but with only Fabianski to beat, the Belgian hooked his shot well wide.A booking for David Silva, for dissent, was greeted with loud cheers from the Swansea supporters who, after an exacting start to the season, were beginning to see some light.For City, there was growing frustration. They dominated the ball for long periods but struggled to break down Swansea's resolute back four, led ably, by Jordi Amat.The second half was barely two minutes old when Swansea had a golden opportunity to edge themselves in front. Wayne Routledge found himself in acres of space on the right, but, inexplicably, chose to dissect Bravo's far post and Llorente with a ball that rolled harmlessly out of play.Five minutes later, the imperious Sigurdsson sent a crisp volley high and wide after Routledge had picked out the Icelandic midfielder with a lobbed pass of real quality.At the opposite end, it was Aguero who came close to restoring City's lead. A smart move involving Gundogan and Silva ended with Aguero shooting over via the foot of van der Hoorn. Sterling was then too tentative with a shot from 12 yards.The breakthrough came in the 64th minute when van der Hoorn was penalised for putting his elbow into the face of De Bruyne inside the Swansea penalty area. Referee Neil Swarbrick had no hesitation in yellow carding the Dutchman and Aguero, with a cheeky chip, did the rest from the spot.The game was up for Swansea when Sterling, on the counter attack, kept his composure and beat Fabianski with a wonderful finish. email print email print Liverpool crushed Hull City 5-1 at Anfield on Saturday to climb into the top four. The MPs have urged the Ministry of Education to develop a policy. The group has also continued to carry out deadly attacks on targets across the border in Kenya.