ODM leader Raila Odinga on Thursday warned Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya of an uncertain future in the new Jubilee Party to which he has switched his allegiance. Mr Odinga was in Kwale County for the first time since Mr Mvurya announced his defection from the Opposition to President Uhuru Kenyatta s party.The governor has opted for a dangerous destination , cautioned Mr Odinga.It was instructive that the Cord leader chose to make his first stop at Mr Mvurya s turf of Kinango. He dismissed some of the reasons given by the governor for heading to Jubilee Party. Mr Mvurya has said that the ruling coalition had spurred development in the county. According to Mr Odinga, that credit belongs to devolution. There are 47 devolved governments and one national government, development can be made by pushing the national government to allocate more funds to counties and not the counties to work closely with the national government, he told the rally.The opposition leader said he wondered why Mr Mvurya had abandoned ODM, even after he had personally assured him of fair ODM nominations ahead of the 2017 General Election.He threw the crowd into feats of laughter when he made fun of the incident in 2014, when both leaders were caned by a man named Lengo Mdzomba at the same venue as yesterday s rally, as they joined a group of traditional dancers. Mr Odinga joked that Mr Mvurya had probably chosen to ditch the party for fear of similar caning. If you remember so well sometime back I was attacked here while I was dancing. I did the same thing today to see whether the same man will come to attack me, he told the rally at Baraza Park market in Kinango.Mr Odinga took credit for Mr Mvurya s election, saying if it were not for him, things would be different for the soft-spoken Kwale County boss. I am the one who held Mvurya s hand when he expressed fears about the party ticket and I assured him of a free and fair nomination only to hear that he has ditched the party, he said.MORE FUNDS He cautioned the governor and all those who had ditched ODM, saying they had made a terrible mistake because there was no room for them in Jubilee. Their action is like a dog carrying a bone in its mouth but dropping it after seeing its reflection in water thinking that it was another dog with a bigger bone, and not only losing the bone but also getting eaten by crocodiles. There are crocodiles in Jubilee, he said. Addressing another rally at Bughuta in Taita-Taveta County earlier, Mr Odinga said: The national government should give counties more resources, which can impact on development projects. What they give to counties is too minimal. He promised he to ensure that his government allocated more monies to counties if elected president next year.Currently, the constitution provides 15 per cent of the audited revenue to counties, which he termed as too little. I was the Prime Minister of this country, so I know it is possible to give more funds for development, he said, pledging that his government would give 45 per cent to counties. Do not blame governors for failing to offer maximum development to you. Governors are being frustrated by the government and the little money they get is not enough to give the best services to residents," he said, accusing President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto of fighting devolution".FREE BIRD Bughuta is the home of Senator Dan Mwazo, who appears to have cut links with the party, although he is yet to speak out about his intention. I am not aware why your senator has been absent during my tour here yet he is the one who introduced me to you. Give him my greetings, he said.At Kinango, the expected running mate of Kenya s ambassador to Tanzania, Mr Chirau Mwakwere, Mr Simeon Mkalla, attended the rally and was recognised and welcomed by Mr Odinga.Mr Mkalla wore an ODM cap and waved to the jubilant crowd, indicating where his team could be headed. The two have been in URP and were eyeing the Jubilee ticket, before Mr Mvurya announced he would ditch ODM. Mr Mwakwere has since said he would be open to join any party. Kwale Senator Boy Juma Boy supported Mr Odinga s sentiments, saying those who had ditched the party had already made a decision and were only looking for excuses.Additional reporting by Reported by Daniel Nyassy, Farouk Mwabege and Lucy Mkanyika email print email print The most preferred private university is Strathmore. There are more than 500,000 students pursuing education in these institutions.