ODM Deputy Organising Secretary Roza Buyu is hoping to become the next Kisumu Woman RepQ: Tell us about yourselfI am a friendly, outgoing, and honest person who always stands for the truth no matter what. I am also very energetic and hardworking and above all trustworthy. I also have a high sense of loyalty.Why do you call yourself Dwasi?Dwasi is a Luo name for a cow the milk cow. In our traditional set up, this cow is considered a blessing as out of the milk from this cow, the family will be nourished and developed either through the milk itself or through the proceeds that come from the sale of the milk.As Dwasi, I am that cow that the community can therefore count on for development.You are contesting for Woman Rep Kisumu County, what s your strategy?Simple strategy get to the people directly and ask them for the opportunity to be their representative. Just let the people know that you are true and reachable.What do you plan to do for Kisumu women?Kisumu women are energised and hardworking women who in the real sense of the word are the backbone of their families. In some instances, they just need to be mobilised to achieve better results and impact in what they do. I am a great mobiliser who can work together with them to give our families better lives. My advice to the women is together we can and we will make it . If they give me a chance.What s your typical day like?I am a late sleeper who goes to bed between 1 and 2am, and therefore end up waking up not so early unless I have a prior morning engagement. I like to spend my morning with myself reflecting and planning with myself reflecting and planning ahead and just speaking to God.This is also the time I catch up on all the calls I need to make. I then attend to my business. I will always try to be home and catch the 9pm news.Tell us a little bit about your family?I have been married to Dennis Randiak for the last 28 years and we have three children - Leon Seda (27 years), Tanya Achieng a (22 years), and the baby of the house Tamara Ainga (11 years).How do you manage to juggle between family and politics?Politics is much easier for one if they have the support of the family. My children, husband and siblings have supported me a great deal in my political life. Many times when I have to be away from home for long periods, my husband steps in as the mother of the family besides playing his role as father. This helps maintain stability within the family.A relationship based on trust also helps me juggle the two and this is extremely importantYou are a sharp dresser. Who influences you?I have inborn intuition on what looks good and generally how things should be best worn. I, however, have two sisters, Jessica and Lillian who help.What do you dislike?Dishonesty and betrayal. Unfortunately, in politics, these two vices are so rampant.What is it about you that people do not know?People do not know that I am a really kind person - almost kind to a fault.What s your favourite meal?No meal is a meal without ugali. Mrenda, and other traditional mboga and ugali will do for me. And yes of course Nyoyo - I can live on this.What keeps you going?Love for life. I always joke that no matter how many funerals I must attend . God let me not be the one. I am grateful for the life that God continues to give me every day. email print email print Jane Gitau, who chairs the Public Relations Society of Kenya, believes that to produce wholesome graduates, universities should collaborate more with industryKenya is lobbying against the planned agreement between US and 12 Asian states for fear of losingPeres will be buried next to Rabin, who was assassinated in 1995 by a Jewish extremist opposed to