Mark Zuckerberg hadn t even properly shaken hands with President Muhammadu Buhari in Abuja before his Nigerian subjects and Kenyans started fighting online over the Facebook founder.His first visit to Africa received the predictable international attention you would expect of a trip by the sixth richest man in the world. His achievements cannot be overstated, as a college dropout who built the world s most important social network from his parents garage. I m here to meet with entrepreneurs and developers, and to learn about mobile money where Kenya is the world leader, he wrote when he landed in Nairobi. He visited the Kenyan tech tourist mecca, the iHub, and had lunch at Mama Oliech s with ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru.It was a fitting meeting of minds as Mucheru is an accomplished former Googler, and himself a pioneer in the Kenyan technology space. The fact that Zuckerberg flew from Lagos to Nairobi and then back to Abuja for face time with the Nigerian leader underscores how seriously he takes converting African leaders to his cause.NOT EXACTLY FREE I watched Zuckerberg pitch that cause, internet.org, to a packed hall at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain, in February 2014, an ambitious plan to bring Internet access to hundreds of millions still unconnected around the world.In July that same year, Zambia became the first country to have it rolled out. It is not exactly free Internet as it is sold, more like a version of the Web curated by Facebook. The Guardian described it as a threadbare platform that only allowed access to 36 bookmarked sites and Facebook, which was, naturally, the only social network available. Internet.org went live in India in February 2015 in partnership with Reliance Mobile, the country s fourth largest telco.In February this year, it was ruled illegal even after it was renamed Free Basics and tweaked following public uproar. India had effectively said no to Facebook s free Internet.Zuckerberg s rockstar welcome to Africa drowned out the rough edges of what he s really selling. As I m here in Africa, I m deeply disappointed to hear that SpaceX s launch failure destroyed our satellite that would have provided connectivity to so many entrepreneurs and everyone else across the continent, he wrote on September 1.ENTICE THEM FOR DATA SUBSCRIPTIONS Many African operators already offer Facebook free to subscribers, convinced that it will entice them to pay for data subscriptions. I m quite frankly not over the moon about his visit because I know of his #freebasics agenda which topples Innovation, tweeted Ugandan techie Evelyn Namara. Africa does not need validation, we re needed now, added Senegalese techpreneur Marieme Jamme. Africa is the next frontier &amp; he knows it s all about numbers and access! Please, let s keep our head high, seek collaboration not validation. Statements like The energy and entrepreneurship in Nigeria and Kenya is amazing , while painfully patronizing, seem to validate what s happening but actually do more harm than good.One of the biggest challenges the African technology ecosystem faces is financing. The best ideas don t always find those with deep pockets to fund them and often when they do, the terms are predatory. A few million dollars to support Africa s entrepreneurs would have made a world of difference. Even offering to mentor a handful of the startup founders he met in Lagos and Nairobi would have been remarkable.FAST-GROWING COLONY Instead, Zuckerberg came to inspect one of his fastest growing colonies and marvel at it with some detachment. Africans are bending over backwards to accommodate his promise of free Internet with internet.org and completely ignoring the principles of Net neutrality, the idea that Internet service providers should allow uniform access to all content and applications.This flies in the face of that and will get a generation hooked to the social networking service and little else.The woman by Zuckerberg s side throughout the trip was the brilliant Ebele Okobi, Facebook s Head of Public Policy for Africa. She s based in London. Facebook s African headquarters and only office in the continent is in Johannesburg, South Africa.There are no operations in Nigeria or Kenya, two of its biggest markets this side of the Sahara. Only 2 per cent of Facebook s American employees are Black.There is no publicly available data for its international staff but it is unlikely to be any more diverse. Zuckerberg didn t announce an expansion of Facebook s African headcount, new collaborations or any financial commitments at all. It was all public relations. Send your comments to [email&#160;protected] email print email print President Barack Hussein Barack Obama, JD, published a scholarly article on health care reform in a medical journal. Ms Tutui said the court would have given orders for immediate realisation of the rule. But the passport was not stamped, meaning he did not pass through the immigration desk.