Is the fashion industry profitable? Can you make money off fashion or do you need a side hustle to complement your business? This week, three players in the industry give us some honest insightson the dynamics of the business. Read and learn.Emo Rugene, 28 Afroshoes, my brand, is a registered limited company that specialises in footwear. The shoes are locally manufactured, and most sales are done online through social media platforms. I have been creating since 2012, and this is my main business.I try to get materials and tools for the shoe production and assembly locally. There is a big challenge though because the shoe making industry in Kenya is underdeveloped. In some cases, I need tosource from Ethiopia. At the moment, taxation in Kenya grossly affects my market. Products from China come in at a lower tax, making it difficult for my brand to compete. Cost of production isalso very high, in fact, the retail price for my products is costlier than the products from China. I source my customers from social media and from referrals from previous customers, although Iwould like to set up a retail space at a prime location to cash in on the walk-in clients. I have the capacity to produce in big numbers in my workshop, enabling me to stock up in shops, in returniving me a better sales projection.Emo Rugene, 28 owns Afroshoes. PHOTO| FILE| NATION MEDIA GROUPAt the moment, we are at a plateau stage in the industry s growth because of the government s policies on production. The factors of production are not subsidised, giving unfair advantage toimports. The market is ready to purchase but the price points and quality are just not streamlined. For example, Ethiopia, where I am producing my latest collection, has decided to support theirindustry, and the results are there for all to see.I think my persistence and humility have been my success pillars. Also, the prices for my products are more or less the same since I started, and this consistency in pricing has helped to keep clientsand also earn new ones. I emphasise on quality and outstanding customer service, a factor that has worked well for us. To increase visibility of local brands, I would urge everyone in the industry topull together, unify and have one platform that designers can sell from. We also need more designs that are vibrant and can challenge imports in terms of quality and finishing. Only then can themarket embrace local designers. ***Lorraine Mari, 31 Our company, Enkaya Designs, manufactures women s jewellery, all hand-made using natural raw materials. It was registered this year. We are online, and respond to orders from people who findus either through referral or from the interwebs. We also attend functions that allow us to display our products, this way, customers are able to touch, feel, try our products, and suggest designs,which we then customise for them. I started creating designs that women could wear and probably not find anywhere else in 2014. It was then that I decided to go full throttle, in spite of theamount of income coming in, and make the business my sole means of income. It took me a while to realise the income is a result of work put in.All materials we use are natural and eco-friendly. They include brass, aluminium, Maasai beads, glass beads, and semi-precious stones. Some are imported from Asia and others sourced locally. Sofar, it has not been difficult accessing them, though some materials are costly since they are taxed imports. There are also locally sourced materials that are quite expensive, depending on how theyare sourced and made. For example, local ceramic beads are costly because they are shaped by hand. Thankfully, the tools we use to make the end product are easily available.Lorraine Mari, 31, runs Enkaya Designs, manufactures women s jewellery. PHOTO| SALATAN NJAUThe issue is workmanship, since everything is done by hand and the tools required are just to assist with the workmanship. I am yet to export a significant order. I don t think that would be a bigissue though since the cost will be inclusive of VAT, and I just need to be open to my business partners on tax policies in Kenya before any transaction. As for imports, they should be subsidised orfully exempted from tax. Examples are brass and Maasai beads, so that the cost doesn t trickle to the end customer, and also promote industry growth.I market my products by wearing them, networking with people of interest, such as bloggers, fashion-stylists, probable clients, and referrals. If you give good service from the get go, chances ofgetting referrals are higher. Mass Production would not be the way to go for us, since our products are mostly custom made.I would blame the slow growth of designers to the fact that we are not willing to give ourselves the time required to hone our craft. We think we have the right product and therefore the governmentowes us a market or support. How many of us will take time out for a year to just perfect on our designs? If we keep on relying on the government to do things for us we will lose focus on our products and we will keep on having these blame game. As others are waiting for the government to open international markets, others are flying to these markets to get their own connections.The government has created institutions where you can ask for information and support. I think the government is beginning to see fashion as an industry just like farming or IT, which needs support to thrive.For bigger chances of success, one must start their business idea and test it out at home, locally. With family, friends then spread it out to prospective clients. If Kenyans don t want your product butyou still want to export, there is something wrong. It is after you have tested your product at home successfully and there is a market for it that you can then expand outside.That said, we in the fashion industry need partnerships and associations. Even an association with a professional fashion model can open connections.Giving quality products and putting the customer first is everything, since they are the reason you exist.Industry stakeholders that represent Kenyan designers should be more active. We need to host more expos and invite other stakeholders, local and international, to see what we have to offer one another. It is however up to us designers to ensure that these products are worth marketing. ***Anyango Mpinga, 32 My company, Anyango Mpinga, is a luxury brand, producing ready-to-wear clothing for women. I design the printed textiles that I use. I sell from my atelier in Westlands and also online through a Canadian platform.I have been creating for about four years now, and this has been my sole means of income ever since I quit my job in media.A lot of my fabric is sourced from Europe and Asia - I prefer working with natural fabrics, whose high quality makes garments last longer.It is time the government relaxed its policy on taxation of raw materials that are not readily available in Kenya, particularly textiles. As it stands, we re barely producing anything and so are heavily reliant on imports. The challenge with this is that while importing your fabric, it could easily be held by the customs department for up to 40 days, which affects the business in multiple ways.Most of my business comes to me theough word of mouth, and referral from my clients. When a client is happy with a product and service, they will happily share it with the world.Producing pieces in large quantities is really the only way to make money in the fashion industry. Custom pieces are great, but you may not always have someone coming to get a dress for a weddingor important function. Since the made-to-measure business is slow, you need something else to sustain the business. Production in Kenyan has its challenges because we still do not have enoughproduction facilities with highly skilled artisans to produce clothing. When you do find the few facilities, they tend to not always be able to work with certain fabrics, meaning you have to out-source your production elsewhere.Production can also be tough if you are starting out and can only produce clothes in small quantities.Most manufacturers have a minimum quantity for items that they are willing to produce, for it to make financial sense, so designers really need to find clever ways to work with manufacturers andnegotiate terms.We need to support more production facilities and invest in training artisans who can then produce products for designers which can be consumed locally and internationally. Also, taxes on importedtextiles should be done away with, so that we can bring in our textiles hassle free.Designers and stakeholders should try and work together more often. Also, rather than have fashion events every other weekend, we can make a bigger impact by having two or three very strongevents which appeal to the different segments of our market, supported by our government. email print email print Ms Tutui said the court would have given orders for immediate realisation of the rule. But the passport was not stamped, meaning he did not pass through the immigration desk.