Title hopefuls Strathmore University Scorpions and Sliders clash in a mouth-watering Kenya Hockey Union women s Premier league match on Sunday at the City Park Stadium, Nairobi. The high stakes clash is one of the 10 matches which are on the cards this weekend - five to be played on Saturday and another five on Sunday.Champions Butali Sugar Warriors and second-placed Strathmore University will move closer to securing play-off spots with wins against Bay Club and Nakuru respectively on Sunday in the men s Premier League Pool A matches.In Pool B, second-placed Kenya College of Accountancy University (KCAU) host third-placed Greensharks at the City Park Stadium in another tough tie.Newcomers Amira Sailors will be aiming to extend their unbeaten run against Daystar Falcons in another women s tie on Sunday.However, it s the tie between the Scorpions and Sliders that stands out as both teams chase three points in their quest to be crowned champions. This season s women league race is one of the most open in recent years with the top five sides separated by a point.Scorpions are in third place with seven points same as leaders and champions Telkom Orange and second placed Sailors. A win for the university will take them to the summit with four matches left to play.Scorpions coach Meshack Senge wants his charges to build on last weekend s 1-0 win over Vikings and maintain their unbeaten run. Sliders are a good and disciplined side and we will need to be more adventurous in breaking them down and creating chances for our forwards, Senge said on Friday. Senge could have forward Linda Ayodi back in the side after she recovered from a broken knee. Sliders, who lie in fourth place with six points, will be hoping striker Anita Agunda keeps up her scoring form.The evergreen striker has scored six goals from two matches this season and will lead her team s attack. Both teams have league ambitions and it will be a closely contested match with neither side wanting to make any mistakes, Sliders coach Nixon Nyangaga noted. Amira could as well go top with a convincing win against Falcons with champions Orange not in action this weekend.Champions Butali head into the tie against Bay Club with a perfect run of four wins from four matches, an all too familiar scenario that coach Cliff Okello is determined to see continue after the dust settles.Butali laboured to a 3-2 win away to Nakuru Club last weekend and Okello is looking for an improved show tomorrow. Bay will be aiming to move away from the relegation zone after only one win from four matches so far.Barnabus Odhiambo, who scored last weekend on his return from injury, is expected to start again.FIXTURES (All Matches at City Park Stadium unless stated)SaturdayPremier women: USIU Spartans v KU Titans 12pmNational men: Parkroad Tigers v Impala 2pm, Kabarak University v JKUAT- 2pm (Kabarak)Premier men: Greensharks v KCAU (4pm), Bay Club v Nakuru (6pm)Sunday Premier men: Butali V Bay Club 9am, Strathmore v Nakuru- 11am, Chase Sailors v Wazalendo- 5pmPremier women: Daystar University v Amira Sailors -1pm, Sliders v Strathmore Scorpions- 3pm email print email print The most preferred private university is Strathmore. There are more than 500,000 students pursuing education in these institutions.