Mombasa Governor Ali Hassan Joho on Sunday promised Deputy President William Ruto a bruising battle for the presidency in 2022. You will face me and I will hand you a very painful defeat, said Mr Joho, who is the ODM deputy party leader. He made the declaration at an ODM rally in Nairobi.Both the Orange Democratic Movement and governing Jubilee Party held parallel political rallies barely three kilometres apart, with each declaring a tough battle for State House in 2017 and in 2022. While ODM held its rally at the Masinde Muliro Grounds in Huruma, Jubilee gathered its supporters at Mlango Kubwa, Eastleigh.Police remained on high alert throughout the day after the two parties vowed on Saturday that their rallies would go on.Governor Joho led ODM supporters in declaring party leader Raila Odinga the 2017 presidential race flagbearer. He also declared himself the 2022 ticket holder. However, the declaration was criticised by Nyali MP Hezron Awiti of Wiper Party, who accused Mr Joho of seeking to endear himself with Mr Odinga. Joho is wasting his time because Agwambo will not fall for that, said the MP who has declared that he will be challenging Mr Joho for the governorship next year.Mr Joho said ODM had organised rallies in all parts of the country. We are coming to Eldoret in a few weeks time. We shall go to Murang a, he said. Mr Odinga did not attend the rally and Mr Joho said that he was representing him. The party leader had travelled to Germany and was expected back Sunday.A few kilometres from the ODM rally in Huruma, Jubilee leaders drummed up support for President Uhuru Kenyatta, saying he was the best bet for the top job next year.RETURN MONEY Led by National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale, the leaders promised to campaign for all those who defected to Jubilee from opposition parties to reclaim their seats. Over 40 elected leaders defected to the new party during its launch on September 10. The 2017 election will be between Jubilee that believes in the unity of all the 42 tribes of Kenya and the others who are out to divide the country with tribal parties, said Mr Duale. We have planned our house. We know it is Uhuru and Ruto. We are asking our competitors: Who are your leaders? He also warned Mr Odinga to prepare for defeat in next year s presidential election.At Masinde Muliro Grounds, Mr Joho said an ODM administration will focus on the fight for national inclusion, strengthening devolution and war on graft.He said that following his Raila Tosha declaration in Mombasa on September 10, it was now official that ODM had decided on its candidate in 2017.Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero was endorsed to defend his seat on an ODM ticket. Mr Kidero criticised ODM politicians who had decamped to Jubilee, including Starehe MP Steven Kariuki.He told Mr Kariuki to resign and return the Sh20 million he was given for campaigning if he was a principled man.However, Mr Kariuki said he was fully in Jubilee. The work that President Kenyatta has done in Mathare, in all honesty in front of God, is amazing. So I said, I must support him, said Mr Kariuki, who had organised the Jubilee rally at Mlango Kubwa.UNITED PARTY The rally was also attended by Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko, nominated Senator Beatrice Elachi, Nominated MP Johnson Sakaja, Dagoretti South MP Dennis Waweru, Nairobi Woman Representative Rachel Shebesh and former Starehe MP Margaret Wanjiru, among others. We are united in Jubilee. We are many vying for the governor s seat, but we will remain united. I will support whoever wins the nominations, and I expect them to support me if I win too, said Mr Sonko.Ms Shebesh said: Let me tell ODM. You really do not know us. Nairobi is fully Jubilee. Mr Sakaja said that the new Jubilee party will kick out tribal politics in Kenya. It is about time that we said no to tribal cocoons in the name of political parties. Jubilee has come out to unite all Kenyans under one roof, he said. email print email print Until yesterday, he was the presiding Judge of the Court of Appeal in Kisumu. It also shows that 13 per cent of Kenyans are addicted to alcohol.