Ulinzi Stars assistant coach Benjamin Nyangweso has urged his charges to fight and win the match for their ailing head coach Robert Matano when the soldiers tackle Sony Sugar in a Kenyan Premier League match at the Awendo Green Stadium on Wednesday.Matano, an old-hand in the game, has been ailing and will not be part of the game, but his soft-spoken deputy wants the soldiers to live true to their call and win the match at the difficult hunting ground for their boss. It won t be easy but the players have to go there will a winning mentality. It will be a tough match but we have to fight for a win, he said. I want us to do it for him (Matano). It would be good for us if we get a win. We need to play well so that wherever he is, he can be pleased with us, Nyangweso added.The title-chasing soldiers will be without Eric Apul and Churchill Muloma, who are still nursing injuries, but Nyangweso is adamant that their absence will not limit the firepower in their armoury.Placed sixth on the standings on 33 points, Ulinzi have dropped crucial points in their bid to close the gap on leaders Tusker, the most recent a barren draw with Posta Rangers in their match prior to the international break.At the same time, Sony Sugar coach Salim Babu has said his charges will go all out in attack in the match. We had a lot of time to rebuild, we are well prepared because every team is preparing hard to get points, Babu said Tuesday. We are in a difficult zone on the log and we expect a win, he reckoned adding that with a fully fit squad to choose from, his boys head into the 3pm clash with a slight advantage.Goal poacher Justine Monda and Eugene Ochieng, who had been on the sidelines, took part in this week s training and could be part Babu s match day squad.Sony have blown hot and cold with their last league outing ending in a disappointing 1-0 loss to bitter rivals Chemelil Sugar - but will be out to utilise their home advantage. email print email print Chemelil Sugar tactician Francis Baraza is the Fidelity Insurance Coach of the Month for August. Ms Tutui said the court would have given orders for immediate realisation of the rule. But the passport was not stamped, meaning he did not pass through the immigration desk.