Western Stima s teenage midfielder Kenneth Muguna is the SJAK-SportPesa Premier League Player of the Month for August.Muguna garnered 21 points in a poll conducted by football writers to fend off competition from Tusker forward Allan Wanga by just three points. Sunday Mutuku and Andrew Murunga both of Kakamega Homeboyz were third and fourth with 13 and eight points respectively.Muguna became the second Western Stima player to bag the gong since its inception last year, after Gabriel Andika, the only goalkeeper to have won the award.And in what has been a phenomenal breakthrough season for the youngster, Muguna s impressive performances, which included scoring twice for Stima in August against Ushuru and neighbours Muhoroni Youth, caught the eye of national head coach Stanley Okumbi, who handed him a call-up. A jubilant Muguna could not hide his joy after receiving the award on Tuesday saying: This award is every player's dream and I m happy to have finally gotten it. I want to thank the club and my teammates for enabling me win it. I hope it steers me to the top. The former National Super League side Palos FC prodigy also saw the funny side of being the winner. Everyone in the house will enjoy watching the television and I feel encouraged to win bigger things, he said in reference to the 43-inch LG TV-set that came with the award. He was also given a trophy and Sh100,000.Stima coach Henry Omino hailed the youngster s contribution to the team. I m happy. Our faith in signing him has paid off. He's been phenomenal and it's evident in the assists, goals and general contribution for the team. Muguna became the seventh recipient of the award this term, after Timothy Otieno of Posta Rangers in February, Mohamed Shariff (Bandari, March), Wycliffe Ochomo (Muhoroni Youth, April), (Khalid Aucho formerly of Gor Mahia, May) and Hillary Echesa (Chemelil Sugar, July). email print email print National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi forwarded the list of nominees on October 6. Ms Waiguru had earlier been cleared and designated as a witness.