Anticipation is high as Gor Mahia leaders converge at the Nyayo National Stadium on Sunday for a key consultative meeting aimed at studying and making amendments to the club s draft constitution.The meeting will bring together chairmen and secretaries of the club s over 100 branches, club s organising secretaries and a specialist in law who will take participants through the draft document.Should the branch leaders reach an agreement, a date shall be set for a Special General Meeting to either rubberstamp or reject the document.During the SGM, dates and modalities for the election set for December will be discussed. The meeting will also come up with the guideline of abiding by the Sports Act as well as the Caf Club Licensing rules.The club is in a race against time to beat Caf s November 30 deadline for Club Licensing as well as to streamline its operations in in line with the requirements of the Sports Act.Speaking to Sunday Nation Sport, club acting secretary general Ronald Ngala said: The meeting is consultative session. It s going to discuss and consult on matters constitution and possibly set a date for the SGM. We expect branch officials to give their suggestions and where need be, make alterations in the draft document, Ngala added. All branches in the club records will take part in the exercise. Sunday s meeting comes in the wake of heightened calls for the club s overdue elections. Initially the SGM was to be held last Sunday but it was called off at the eleventh hour.However on Thursday, club boss Ambrose Rachier, who has come under stinging criticism, assured fans that elections would be held in December. We can only hold elections once we have complied with the Sports Act. One of the key requirements in the Act is we have to put in place a constitution that meets certain parameters, Rachier said. That is why we have come up with an amended draft constitution and we have invited registered members to send representatives to scrutinise it.He added: Once the new constitution has been debated and approved, we would convene an Annual General Meeting, where the elections would be held. We expect to conduct the elections in December, he added. email print email print Gor Mahia chairman Ambrose Rachier has said the club elections would be held in December. Mr Menjo says this device can even be concealed from the driver in a PSV. The official organisers of the concert are Walee Wasee Ltd who approached KTB for support.