Nyali MP Hezron Awiti has told Governor Hassan Joho to forget votes from members of the Luo community in Mombasa, saying that despite his support for Cord leader Raila Odinga, Mr Joho had done nothing to warrant the community s support.The MP said Mr Joho had antagonised the community members and ignored their interests. The governor promised mechanics displaced at Majengo a place to carry out their businesses nearly a year ago but to date he has not fulfilled his promise, the MP said on Sunday.Mr Awiti said instead of coming to the rescue of suspended County Assembly Speaker Thadias Rajwayi when he faced opposition, the governor kept mum . How can he purport to be a friend to Raila and campaign for him yet he does not care about members of his (Raila s) community in Mombasa? I am telling Joho to forget the Luo vote in this county, he said. Mr Joho has criss-crossed the country, popularising Mr Odinga but this has nothing to do with national politics but an attempt at trying to get the Luo votes in Mombasa to retain the governorship. He said mechanics who had been operating in Mvita and hawkers were evicted and are yet to be given any alternative place to operate from. Despite talks and efforts to address the problem, the traders have no place to operate from, he said. These are the very people the governor is trying to sweet talk to vote him back. Let him know that no amount of persuasion and hanging on the coat of Mr Odinga will guarantee him votes because he has wasted the chances that the people of Mombasa gave him in 2013, he said.The MP spoke at the ground-breaking ceremony for the construction of Maweni Secondary School, which is being built using the Constituency Development Fund (CDF).At least Sh6 million will be spent on refurbishment of classrooms, Sh6 million on construction of a kitchen, Sh3.8 million for purchase of lab equipment and Sh9 million to buy a school bus.Efforts to get a comment from the governor were fruitless as he could not be reached on his mobile phone.The county director of communication, Mr Richard Chacha, promised to get back to the Daily Nation after contacting Mr Joho. He had not responded by the time of going to press.Speaking earlier at the African Inland Church Kongowea, on Sunday, Bishop Henry Gache questioned the county government s intention to levy churches. It is no longer a secret that the Joho administration wants to levy churches and we believe this will be a thing of the past if we elect Mr Awiti to that position, he said.According to him, time had come for the Christians and their Muslim brothers to elect leaders who would propagate their interests.Mr Awiti has in the past indicated that he will be challenging Mr Joho for the governorship in next year s elections. email print email print The pilots said the issues they had regarding management of the airline have been resolved. Safaricom has said it is trying to resolve the problem.