So last Sunday I saw what Gor Mahia hooligans can do. There I was with my good friend-cum-driver. I didn t know what had happened at the game only learning much later that Gor Mahia had drawn with Sofapaka.Sitting in traffic, I watched as the hooligans were harassing an Ongata Rongai bound matatu. The name was Royal Swift. I could see terrified mothers with their children. And a man who was trying to protect the wife and kids from these hooligans.Now my view would be so unpopular but it must be said; let the police do their work. If it means sending a few of those hooligans to the grave let it be. We cannot have a team with hooligans ruining the good name of the club.As I sat there watching, one of the hooligans tried to pry open the boot of the car to steal shopping. Another one stood in front of the car lighting a stick of bhang, Meanwhile another one was peeing on our car.When finally I reached home I asked myself, were this the Gor Mahia fans I used to know? Never ever. From the first game of Gor Mahia I watched at City Stadium in 1984 we have never been allowing the thugs to run our club.ABOUT K OGALOHere we are talking about K Ogalo. The biggest team in our neck of the woods. We beat every team at will. We are not talking about the losers that my good friend Peter Leftie likes supporting. At Gor Mahia we love discipline and all that appertains to being champions.You cannot wear the green and white of Gor Mahia then go ahead and harass innocent people. No way! If you love Gor Mahia please go home after the match and sleep quietly. As we say, tomorrow is another day.And it is at this point I beg the police bosses, please deal with the thugs masquerading as K Ogalo fans ruthlessly, and serious fans will always support you.Done with Gor Mahia, there is this small matter of Mathare United being denied the chance to display their sponsors banner at their last game.I want to tell my good friend Bob Munro that it doesn t work that way. In the English Premier League, which I am sure Bob watches a lot, there is a team called Liverpool. That team is sponsored by Standard Chartered Bank. But never ever will you see Standard Chartered Bank s banners in the stadium. Because that league is purely sponsored by Barclays Bank.So the notion of trying to sue FKF does not arise. Because the league is sponsored by the betting company called SportPesa. Period.[email&#160;protected] email print email print Mr Tom Cheruiyot Biegon states that Justice Maraga erroneously reduced the murder charge againstThe airline has released advance extracts of its financial results in an attempt to counter a