Mombasa Governor Ali Hassan Joho has put to rest speculation that he intends to be ODM leader Raila Odinga s running mate in next year s presidential race.On Thursday, the governor, who is one of the party s two deputy leaders, said he would campaign hard to ensure Mr Odinga becomes Kenya s fifth president.Addressing two separate meetings in Likoni Constituency, Mr Joho said he would defend his seat with eyes on the 2022 presidential election. Speculation is rife that I will be deputy president or Mr Odinga s running mate, he said at Mwangala Primary School in Mtongwe where he launched a sanitation programme.At Shelly Beach where he launched a road rehabilitation programme, Mr Joho said going for the county s number two post would be too early for him. I will defend my seat. I am not worried, even as I leave everything to you because you are my campaigners, he said. They have formed an alliance to win the governor s seat in 2017. But God willing, I will still be the governor, he said in reference to his Wiper rivals for the seat, Senator Hassan Omar and Nyali MP Hezron Awiti. Mr Joho urged residents to register in large numbers and vote for the Orange Democratic Movement candidates. On the controversy surrounding the Coalition for Reforms and Democracy s presidential flagbearer, Mr Joho told the Wiper Democratic Movement and Ford-Kenya to pick their candidates and battle it out with Mr Odinga. Just endorse your presidential candidates the way ODM has done. Democracy is about competition. I should not be vilified when I market my party, he said. He also dared the Coast Regional Coordinator, Mr Nelson Marwa, to make good his threat and arrest him. Take your threats elsewhere. I will speak my mind, he said.Mr Marwa had threatened to order the governor s arrest after Mr Joho led a mob in destroying a wall Kenya Broadcasting Corporation was building in Bombolulu on land also claimed by the county government.Meanwhile, Tana River Governor Hussein Dado on Thursday said Mr Joho was the spokesman of the Coast region.He said Mr Joho, like any other politician, had every right to work and endear himself to coastal people who have been without a key influential leader since the death of Emmanuel Karisa Maitha and Shariff Nassir . email print email print The officers&#039; guns have been seized and will be subjected to ballistic tests. The commission received 68 applications when the deadline expired on September 28.