In this series in the Sunday Nation we invite readers to send questions to select public figures. Answers will be published in the next print and online editions of the newspaper. This week Mombasa Governor and ODM deputy leader Hassan Joho responds to your questionsDear sir, you seem to have a love-hate relationship with President Uhuru Kenyatta. What s the cause of your differences and do you see yourself ever working with Jubilee?J. Mwangi, NairobiLove-hate is actually the other name of politics. Politicians know that is normal. President Kenyatta appreciates those who are candid with him especially on issues of national importance. There are many areas we have co-operated and succeeded together. In the few areas we have differed, those differences have been mutual and respectful, and a lot of work goes into finding acceptable compromises after every disagreement. There is always this temptation to look at Jubilee as the government. Jubilee is a political party just like my ODM Party. The government, which exists in two layers national government and 47 counties is created by the Constitution. As the Governor of Mombasa, I am obligated to work with the national government.And there are clearly laid down laws on how to do this. The one way to work with Jubilee the party is to join it. I don t have a reason to do that as ODM has a more superior vision for Kenya. Bwana governor, why do you seem to go personal every time you are talking about the Deputy President? Is it just politics or you have issues with him at a personal level?David Kigo, NairobiDo I go personal? I actually don t. However, it is my duty to be as passionate as I can when challenging some of the policies of the Jubilee regime. These policies are more about the personalities pushing them; that s why you can t oppose them without being seen to be attacking their backers.Could you clarify whether you are going to be Raila Odinga s running mate next year?Graffin Wanyangu, ButulaNo, I will not be Raila Odinga s running mate. My taking charge of the ODM campaign is just fulfilling my duties as the deputy party leader and my sincere belief that our party leader can do a better job as President. Your recent efforts to campaign for ODM would seem to be causing some political ripples. Do you think you will achieve much towards this direction?Francis Njuguna, KibichoiI don t want ODM to be consumed in a coalition arrangement where for the last four years it has behaved as an equal partner, sometimes even subordinate, to Ford Kenya and Wiper. By elected representation, ODM is the senior partner. Failure to accept this fact is what has caused the confusion people often talk about in Cord. Look at the parliamentary leadership; do you see ODM in charge? There are those who believe that a stronger ODM weakens Cord but I don t buy it. Does it mean a weaker ODM will strengthen Cord? Why do you always seem bitter and vengeful during your political campaign speeches where you use toxic and intimidating language. For instance, while in Kisumu recently you said that you are ready to die to ensure Raila Odinga ascends to the Presidency. Is political competition enmity? Wambugu NuthuPolitical competition is definitely not enmity. My political tone is determined by the issues I want to share with my audience. If those issues are passionate to me and they always are I have to use language I deem necessary to pass my message across. If that is what you call toxic and intimidating , we can always discuss that. I, however, desist from personal insults or try to play the ethnic card, which is the mainstay of Jubilee politics.With the possibility of Jubilee Party fielding Suleiman Shabhal and Ananiah Mwaboza as Governor and Deputy plus Wiper Democratic Party endorsing the ticket of Mombasa Senator Omar Hassan and Nyali MP Awiti Bolo respectively, how do you gauge your chances of getting re-elected in 2017 considering the ethnic arithmetic?Derek Liech, Kisauni Politics of tribal arithmetic is what has led our country to where it is today. Whenever those with nothing to tell the people want cheap wins, they start constructing ethnic enclaves. With ethnicity, there are insiders and outsiders . That means leaders will play favourites. My philosophy of politics is that of inclusion. Over time, I have built a broad base that reflects the true mosaic of Mombasa, which is a city of all, defined by our unique identity as a cosmopolitan, multi-racial, multi-cultural and cross-ethnic city. This is why I am comfortable I will be re-elected. I admire your leadership. Given that you come from a minority community what would you do to unite Kenyans? Evans Kipya.My community is the largest. I belong in that community of citizens who believe in fairness, inclusion, justice and this grand idea called Kenya. Suppose you were elected President in 2022, how would you distinguish yourself from presidents Jomo Kenyatta, Daniel Moi, Mwai Kibaki or Uhuru Kenyatta? Samuel Wanjama, KasaraniPast presidents have come to office with the high promise of creating a united, prosperous and equal opportunity country. Each of them at the most defining moment abandoned this and allowed state capture by their small ethnic elites who then used the distributive authority to create a patronage system that s been the costliest tragedy for Kenya. I want to be the president who breaks this culture. A de-ethnicised presidency is a de-tribalised Kenya. That means no more economic policies meant to reward some and isolate others. That means harnessing our diversity for national development. That means real national unity, not forced inter-ethnic marriages. This is what I see my candidature representing simply, a break with the past, a new beginning. What is your county government doing to fight terrorism and check radicalisation of youth?Phelix Omondi Ochieng, Karatina UniversityMy government has tackled terrorism by addressing the root causes of extremist ideology. We have created a counter-narrative to the terrorism story in Mombasa. One, we are addressing marginalisation, dispossession and the powerlessness of youth. It used to be said that terrorism appealed to the poor youth living in slums than the rich youth in secluded, wealthy neighbourhoods but that is a myth. A discourse on terrorism must address what, beyond poverty, leads to young people choosing to risk their lives to become terrorists. So while we addressed joblessness, we also decided to start addressing the causes of youth powerlessness. We started engaging the the youth in more social activities. We started opening up more social spaces. The other thing we did was to address religious intolerance. I believe cohesion and peaceful co-existence is not a choice. Some believe that the fight against terrorism in Mombasa and at the coast may have been compromised due to your non-co-operation with the national government. What do you have to say about this? Komen Moris, EldoretThe fight against terrorism proceeded from the assumption that every Muslim youth in Mombasa was a terrorist until proven innocent. The system went at great lengths, in some cases, to frame innocent youths. It backfired with devastating consequences. I initially didn t want to join in but the more the national government got it wrong, the more people suffered. As an elected leader, I had to speak out. So, yes, we differed but it was purely on the strategies.My support for the fight against terror has remained unchanged. Why is it that business permits in Mombasa are more expensive compared to other counties including Nairobi? A single business permit for an M-Pesa outlet for one year is Sh20,000 that is beyond the reach of many low-income residents. Secondly, in your campaign to become the governor of Mombasa, you had promised to build a waste recycling plant. This has not happened. What plans do you have to deal with this problem? David N. Ndungu, MombasaPermits vary by business, location, nature and size. The Single Business Permit in the new Finance Bill 2016/2017 has been reduced from Sh20,000 to Sh12,000. Garbage presents an expensive and difficult problem for the county. It costs roughly Sh1.6 billion to Sh2 billion annually for waste management. This is almost a third of our budget allocation. But there are significant efforts being made with the little resources we have to improve collection, evacuation, disposal and landfill management.What have you done to improve the education sector especially in higher learning institutions?Mandela Stephen, Kenyatta University Higher education is not a devolved function so many of the policies and programmes that affect higher education emanate from the national government. That said, the county government of Mombasa partners with higher education institutions to address some of the challenges facing students. We have a policy of having students on internships and short placements in our offices and we make referrals to other businesses whenever we can. We are also improving housing so that Mombasa becomes more attractive to young people as a place to come study, work and live. This also goes in ensuring faculty members have safe, secure and affordable places to stay with their families.Sir, there have been increasing cases of land grabbing of private property in Kisauni, Mombasa, as well as cases of hooliganism and crime. What do you intend to do to protect land investors and residents? GeolandThe coast region has had a very complicated history with land. There are injustices, especially dispossession, that spans generations and Mombasa is no exception. While counties have limited powers to adjudicate on land matters, there have been instances of blatant land grabs that forced us to intervene. As a county we will not condone reckless land grabbing. Some parts and streets of Mombasa town are said to be exceedingly filthy and littered with garbage. Have you assigned dedicated people to reasonably clean the town and have you asked for assistance from the business community? Githuku MungaiYes, quite a number of business people have been very supportive of this. Mombasa produces about 800 to 1,200 tonnes of waste daily, a significant challenge by any measure. The Department of Environment continues to put in place measures that ensure our city county is clean. The Likoni Bridge should have been your county s top priority because Mombasa residents are suffering with faulty ferries that frequently break down. How much longer should Mombasa residents wait?Arshad AlibhaiThe Kenya Ferry Services is a national government function. If it were devolved perhaps right now the construction of the bridge would be midway to completion. Be that as it may, I continue to engage the national government on this project though it doesn t seem to be a priority for them. The good news is that the Dongo Kundu bypass is coming to fruition.Mombasa County is endowed with a variety of natural resources that can be sustainably utilised for socio-economic benefits. What role does the county government play in the conservation of these natural resources?Dr Joachim Kagiri, MweigaWe have a department of environment that develops policies and strategies for utilising our natural resources. One way of making counties hubs of peace is by ensuring opportunities in counties are shared fairly, and those with skills or services are allowed to sell them without undue hindrance. Mr Governor, there are over 500,000 ODM registered voters in what was Coast Province but who never voted in the last General Election. If all people who qualify to vote in Cord strongholds could be mobilised to register and vote then Cord does not need any other coalition to win elections. What can you do about this? NK Mnene, TavetaThe disproportionate registration of voters is one of the reasons we said the current Independent Electoral and boundaries Commission (IEBC) must be disbanded. It failed terribly in this score. Even if we do massive campaigns for people to register, with IEBC ready to sabotage the exercise, very little can be achieved. National identity card acquisition should happen at birth and renewed periodically. This way the whole issuance system can then be devolved because it is easy to identify applicants turning 18 years. Despite the challenges, we are doing all we can and yes, Cord has the numbers to win the next polls. The County Government of Mombasa has been repairing roads, streets, feeders and avenues by re-tarmacking, re-carpeting, and using concrete to spruce up this tourist city. The problem is that most of the sign boards and sign posts bearing street names are either vandalised or not at the vantage point, making it hard to find locations and give directions. Why such a scenario Mr Governor? Derek Liech, Kisauni I ll admit vandalism has been a challenge in Mombasa. We continue to sensitise our citizens on the preservation of public utilities. As we do this, we are continuously replacing the signs and using the county courts to fine those involved in vandalism. The situation has improved remarkably in the past two years. Receive my appreciation for the work you are doing in Mombasa County so far. What measures have you put in place, together with Coast Regional Coordinator Nelson Marwa, to reduce, if not eliminate, terrorism? Owilly Daktari, Kisumu A county conversation has been going for the past three years since I became governor. If you recall, one of my first acts as governor was to provide police cars to the officers in Mombasa. We have involved communities through youth groups, parents and teachers to help deal with the challenge of radicalisation. You will notice that this engagement has now borne fruit and violent extremism has subsided. We also have developed football stadiums in previously difficult areas like Majengo in which the youth can now engage in sports. We also have a revolving fund that is targeted at the development of entrepreneurs especially in women and youth groups. email print email print 1.3 million Kenyans in 23 counties are in need of food aidTenants have since learnt to invest in numerous containers as property owners buy huge tanks to