Kenya Ports Authority whitewashed Uganda s Kampala City Council Authority 72-27 to be crowned the new women s Fiba-Africa Zone Five basketball club championship champions in Dar es Salaam on Friday night.KPA needed to win the decisive final match of the seven-team round robin tournament to emerge top with 11 points from five wins and one loss. As a result, KPA booked a ticket to represent Fiba-Africa Zone Five in the final tour of the Africa Club championship to be held in Maputo, Mozambique next month.KPA s strong challengers in the seven-day championship, Uganda Christian University (UCU), who had also lost one match, suffered a major set back when USIU-A Flames of Kenya demolished them 57-53 on Friday. UCU had defeated KPA 64-60 and needed to also to beat USIU-A Flames to leave the goal aggregate to determine the winners.Kenya s other representatives USIU-A Flames also qualified for the final tour after finishing second behind KPA on better goal aggregate. Three teams - USIU-A Flames, Ubumbwe of Rwanda and Uganda s UCU - were locked on 10 points each, leaving the goal aggregate to separate them.KPA under head coach Anthony Ojukwu learned from their previous mistakes to start punishing KCCA from the first whistle for a 7-11 lead in the first quarter. It was all systems go for KPA, who had earlier beaten KCCA as they comfortably led 36-17 at the breather. EXPERIENCED PLAYERSKPA s experienced players Vyonne Akinyi, Natalie Akinyi and Brenda Angeshi stamped their authority in the third quarter in which they punished KCCA 19-8. After the match had already been decided, KPA continued puting pressure on the Ugandans to outscore them again 17-2 in the fourth quarter. Barco Stars of Burundi who had won the last championship in Kigali Rwanda last year failed to show up in Dar es Salaam. But Kenya s hope of winning the men s championship went up in smoke when the local reigning Premier League champions Ulinzi Warriors were humiliated 72-49 in the final by Uganda s league kings City Oilers. Ulinzi Warriors had given the Kenyans hope when they beat Patriot of Rwanda 64-62 in a tough semi-final to qualify for the final. Uganda s City Oilers, who finished their tournament unbeaten, had booked a ticket to the final after registering a huge 76-34 victory over other Kenya s USIU-A Tigers in the second semi-final showdown.Ulinzi Warriors had earlier been humiliated 93-55 by City Oilers in their Group B preliminary round match. Ulinzi had nothing to offer in the final as the Ugandans started punishing them 18-9 in the first quarter.Oilers, who won the champions with unbeaten record from six matches, still looked too smart for the Kenyan soldiers leading 33-21 at half-time. Ulinzi Warriors coach William Balozi lacked the ideas to respond to the aggressive opponents who went a head to run over the Eastleigh-based soldiers 20-19 and 19-9 in the last two quarters.KBF LEAGUEMeanwhile, Blazers maintained their first position in the Kenya Basketball Federation men s Division One League when they beat Eldonets 59-48 in their second leg tie at Upper Hill School on Saturday.FIXTURESSunday: Strathmore University v Western Delight (9am), Masaku Sparks v Oryx (10.30am), Strathmore University v Nakuru Club (12pm), Trailblazers v Co-op Bank (3pm), Thunder v KCA-U (4.30pm). email print email print She suspects he could have lost his way at or near Eastleigh.French investigators have reopened their probe into the 1994 genocide-triggering assassination of