Top seeds Kenya Shujaa and defending champions Samurai International are through to the Safari Sevens main Cup quarter-finals.Shujaa, the 2000 and 2013 champions, launched their quest for a third title when they touched down seven times to demolish Rwanda 45-0 at Safaricom Stadium, Kasarani on Saturday.They followed that up with six tries to crush Cape Warriors 38-7 in their Pool A duels. Shujaa were due to meet Portugal at 8pm in the last match of the day.The Warriors should join Kenya in the quarter-finals from the group since they are unlikely to lose to Rwanda in their last duel after beating Portugal 29-4 earlier on.Samurai started their campaign for their second Cup success, edging out Red Wailers from South Africa 24-7 before thrashing Morocco 56-0 in Pool C. Samurai were due to meet Zimbabwe in their last pool match at 7.16pm.England Saxons and Western Province also qualified for the Cup quarters from Pool B after winning their opening two matches. Western Province, who won Plate last year, edged out Homeboyz 14-7 before trouncing Belhar Rockets from South Africa 26-14. Saxons glided past Belhar Rockets and Homeboyz 28-12 and 17-7 respectively.Leonard Mugaisi helped himself to a hat trick of tries while Cyprian Kuto managed a brace for Shujaa, who led 24-0 at the break. Frank Wanyama and Graham Bunyasi scored the other tries.Against Warriors, Kenya scored six tries through Kuto, Mugaisi, Tanga, Bunyasi, Nelson Oyoo and William Ambaka. Tanga curled over four conversions.Skipper Ignacio Martins claimed a double while Hernandez Francisco and James Fleming scored a try apiece for Samurai s victory against Wailers. Robert Parker converted Oscar Dennis s try for Wailers.Churchill Ooko and Dougie Fife touched down a brace each while Nick Mclennan, Hernandez Francisco, James Fleming and Dan Sikuta scored one each against Moroco. FRANSISCO MADE SIX CONVERSIONSShujaa skipper Andrew Amonde said the two matches were a good outing even though they didn t get all their basics right. The boys stepped up well but there is need to hold the ball well and get into contact, said Amonde. I am certain we shall improve with our next matches. Amonde said Safari Sevens was part of their preparations for the World Rugby Sevens Series in Dubai in December. I am sure we shall be ready with the set of players that we have, It s juts a matter of brining everybody back into training, Amonde said. Most of our senior players haven t report back to training." It s a good start but things could get tougher in the knockout stage, said Samurai coach Chad Shepherd, who is also the Germany Sevens head coach. We are jellying well with the sprinkle of players from Scotland, England, Spain and Kenya. email print email print Kenyan officials have repeatedly suggested during the past year that direct air links with the USThe Democrat and former secretary of state bested her Republican rival by three percentage points