As the saga about the organisation and management of sports in Kenya and the Olympics continues to unfold, it s worth taking a look back at the 2016 Olympics, which ended recently in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.The opening ceremony featured a salute to Kenya s Kipchoge Keino. The Kenyan national anthem was also played during the closing ceremony in honour of Eliud Kipchoge s win in the men s marathon.Kipchoge s win was a redemption from the painful sight four years before in London, when Ugandan Stephen Kiprotich snatched victory from two Kenyans to win his country s first gold medal in forty years.For weeks ahead of the starting ceremony, there had been concerns about facilities being ready, crime, doping, the Zika virus and unsafe water, among others.Also, Brazil s president was facing impeachment proceedings, and was later stripped of the presidency for lying about the country s debt levels. But that did not hamper the Olympics. READ: MPs question Olympics officials over stolen kitsBrazil put on a good show. Headline stars like Usain Bolt, Michael Phleps, Neymar and Mo Farah shone in their events, and world records were broken.Brazilian officials also managed new crises that cropped up during the games. There were hotel room glitches, swimming pools that turned green instead of blue and some horrific crashes during the cycling races. The most spectacular incident was an apparent robbery of some members of the United States swimming team. Brazilian security officials investigated and shared evidence with the world. It turned out to be a cruel hoax by a drunk American star swimmer, Ryan Lochte.Lochte's image was shattered and he has lost corporate sponsorship deals, with possible criminal charges looming.At the games, 78 countries won at least one medal. The United Arab Emirates, Singapore, Portugal, Finland, Qatar and Nigeria won one medal each, while India and Israel won two each. Kenya won 13 medals, including six gold, six silver and one bronze. South Africa won 10, including two gold, while Ethiopia won eight medals including one gold.AMERICAN GOLDWhile Almaz Ayana blasted her way to a world record in the women s 10,000 metres, some Ethiopians lamented that this was one of the worst performances by their Olympic team.Kenyans shone in events that they were not known for until recently, including javelin, where Julius Yego won a silver medal while injured, and the 400m hurdles, where Boniface Mucheru won silver.So the outlook for Kenya looks bright as more Kenyans take on new events, doesn't it?Not quite. As Kenyans discover new sports, athletes from other countries are also discovering and excelling in sports that Kenyans usually excel in. An American won gold in the men s 1,500 metres, and his compatriot won silver in the men s 3,000 metres steeplechase.If France had protested against a different Kenyan during the race, Kenya might have ended up with a bronze medal.Also, another country that won two medals was Bahrain, which had a gold from Ruth Jebet in the women's 3,000 metres steeplechase, and a silver in the women's marathon from Eunice Jepkirui, both Kenyan-born athletesIt shows the world is flat for athletes in search of access and opportunity and nothing should be taken for granted. The 2016 Olympics were a wake-up call for Kenya.Twitter: @bankelele email print email print With its own satellite equipment, Facebook can begin to bypass telecom operators while targeting their subscriber base. Ms Tutui said the court would have given orders for immediate realisation of the rule. But the passport was not stamped, meaning he did not pass through the immigration desk.