Olympic 3,000m steeplechase gold medallist Conseslus Kipruto, World 1,500m champion Asbel Kiprop and 800m runner Ferguson Rotich on Friday night won their respective Diamond League Trophies.Kipruto fell short in his attempt at the World Record but showed no compassion to his rivals, winning his fifth race of the season in Brussels, the last leg of the 2016 Diamond League.Kipruto crossed the line in 8 minutes and 03.74 seconds to pocket Sh5m in purse money; Sh4m for winning the Diamond League Race and Sh1m for the night s victory. Kiprop finished third in a race won by compatriot Timothy Cheruiyot but his victories in Doha, Eugene, Birmingham and Oslo saw the three-time World 1,500m champion retain his Diamond League Trophy.A fourth-place finish in his 800m race could not deter Rotich from celebrating his maiden Diamond League Trophy. What spurred Rotich in his Diamond Race charge were his previous victories in Shanghai and Stockholm but also finishing ahead of Pierre-Ambroise Bosse from France. It has been long season but ended up with a blessing. Glory be to God. Thanks to my Family, my manager, coaches, my fellow athletes and my fans all over the World for their support, said Rotich. I want to take a break before focusing on next year s World Championships. STRONG FINISHKipruto took off when he realised that the second pacemaker Paul Kipsiele Koech, who was racing for the last time on the track in his long and illustrious career, was slowing down.However, Kipruto could not shake off the man who followed him home at the Rio Olympics, USA s Evan Jager.The 2,000m mark was hit in 5:21.72, still well on course for a time within eight minutes, but then the pace eased as Kipruto readied himself for what was likely to be an astonishingly fast last 150metres off the last water jump.Out of the water for the last time, and with one barrier to go, Jager had no answer to Kipruo s powerful kick.Kipruto triumphed in 8:03.74 with Jager running a season s best of 8:04.01. France s Mahiedine Mekhissi finished third in 8:08.15 to replicate the Rio podium.Cheruiyot, 20, who won his maiden Diamond League event in Rabat, claimed one of the stunning victories in the Series, to atone for the Rio Olympics miss.Pacemaker Andrew Rotich passed the 800m mark in 1:50.64 before dropping out and fellow Kenyan Elijah Kiptoo carried on for another 200m.With just over a lap to go, Algeria s Olympic silver medallist Taoufik Makhloufi took up pole position, followed by Morocco s Abdalaati Iguider and Cheruiyot, with pre-race favourite and world leader Asbel Kiprop in fourth.Cheruiyot won the sprint for the line in 3:31.34, taking more than two seconds off his best, with Iguider second in 3:31.40. Kiprop wound up third in 3:31.87. The third-place was enough to win the Diamond Race for the lanky Kenyan.Rotich finished fourth in 1:44.59 in a close finish which saw less than 0.3 seconds cover the first six, but it was enough to win him the Diamond Race for season-long consistency. Poland s two-time European champion Adam Kszczot, who failed to make the Olympic final, came through with a late burst to win in 1:44.44 to edge out rising Kenyan youngster and World U20 champion Kipyegon Bett, with Bosnia s world bronze medallist Amel Tuka third in a season s best of 1:44.54. email print email print Kenya is lobbying against the planned agreement between US and 12 Asian states for fear of losingPeres will be buried next to Rabin, who was assassinated in 1995 by a Jewish extremist opposed to