Kenya s Ulinzi Warriors on Wednesday became the first team to qualify for men s semi-finals of the Fiba-Africa Zone Five basketball club championship qualifiers in Dar es Salaam.Reigning Premier League champions Ulinzi Warriors finished second in their five-team Group B with seven points to qualify for Thursday s semis.They won three group matches, having lost the opener 93-55 to Uganda s City Oilers. The soldiers clobbered hosts ABC (Tanzania) 81-71 in their last preliminary round match. Earlier, Ulinzi had also beaten tough opponents Espoir (Rwanda) 95-71 and won 81-71 against ABC.Kenya s other representatives in men s category, USIU, were poised to finish top of Group A . Last evening, USIU were set to play Rwanda s Patriots.USIU Tigers head Group A standings with six points from three consecutive victories, having beaten Uganda s UCU 81-58 and also demolished hosts Savio (Tanzania) 63-54. In the women s category, Kenyan champions USIU-A Flames enhanced their chances of qualifying for the semi-finals after winning all their three matches. USIU-A Flames beat Rwanda s champions Ubumwe 81-74, having also clobbered Don Bosco Lionesses of Tanzania 69-46 and Tanzania s JKT Stars 68-61. Flames now top the seven-team round robin competition with six points.KPA women s team are in fifth position. KPA have won two matches and lost one and were set to play Tanzania s JKT later yesterday. Victory for KPA over JKT would revive their chances of finishing among the top four to reach the semi-finals.Ten men and seven women s teams are taking part in the seven-day championship to battle for the Africa club championship final tour to be held in Maputo, Mozambique in November.RESULTSMEN: Ulinzi Warriors 95 Espoir 71, Patriots 68 Savio 56, Ulinzi Warriors 78 ABC 71, USIU-Tigers 81 UCU 58. WOMEN: UCU 60 KCCA 59, KPA 114 Lioness 63, JKT 48 Ubumwe 74. email print email print Kenya is erecting a wall on the porous Somalia border to minimise infiltration by terrorists. The outgoing commissioners will serve their notice, which will expire as new ones take office.