The Jubilee Party was clearly intent on demonstrating that it is unmatched in numbers, organisation, and money. The three-day fest to mark the merger of President Uhuru Kenyatta s TNA, Deputy President William Ruto s URP, and some 10 or so hangers-on was a show of force designed to bedazzle. I have always said that the merging of the Jubilee affiliates is a good thing. Mature democracies see competition between a couple of mainstream parties and maybe an alternative third party rather than an unwieldy collection of puny ethnic and sectional outfits. The two-party contest between Jubilee and the opposition Cord alliance indicates democratic evolution. However, the latter remains an uneasy coalition of three parties Mr Raila Odinga s ODM, Mr Kalonzo Musyoka s Wiper Party, and Mr Moses Wetang ula s Ford Kenya that too often are in conflict with one another. Even assuming that the three Cord principals keep their promise to hold a credible nomination for a presidential election candidate and the losers rally around the nominee, things could still go haywire if the coalition does not hold joint nominations at the lower levels. Cord at the last elections robbed itself of majorities in the National Assembly and the Senate by having multiple candidates. In many races Jubilee candidates sneaked through because the Cord vote was split between the three parties. Jubilee is now united but is sure to have teething problems, especially when those who have been swallowed up realise that there will be too many aspirants chasing a single ticket. However, it will still start with a distinct advantage if it approaches the General Election next year as a single unit. Cord must seriously think of emulating Jubilee and merging into one strong party if it aims to make a serious stab at power next year. Now, I am quite bemused that in the aftermath of the Jubilee show of force, a little sideshow provoked by singer Bahati generated so much chatter.Many commentators on social media felt that the fellow went a bit too far with his antics on stage, touching on the President and the Deputy President and their better halves. SECURITY LAPSE I would want to believe that the whole performance was scripted to every detail. If not, that would be a major lapse from both protocol and security standpoints. Anyway, I have not heard the President or any of the others complain, so if they are okay with it, that is their prerogative. It did seem to me, though, that even as First Lady Margaret Kenyatta graciously played along, she was rather taken aback and visibly cringed at some of Bahati s rather excessive pawing.Some have also said that it was utterly disrespectful for the performer to appropriate President Kenyatta s and Mr Ruto s seats of power . I wouldn t worry too much about a chair, but I would aim a hefty kick at the backside of any ill-mannered lout who planted his feet on the table where I have my drink.Now to the serious business that seems to have been missed: How many noticed that the Jubilee sea of red shirts resembled the Kanu delegates conferences of yore?And how did so many miss the fact that, like Kanu or some totalitarian state, the party is trying to elevate itself above the government?Yes, Jubilee wants to give itself the power to subject Cabinet secretaries to interrogation by party apparatchik.The Jubilee constitution lists among the party organs a Joint National Executive Committee and National Government Forum , where Cabinet secretaries, principal secretaries, and others will be grilled on their commitment to implementation of the party manifesto.Party hacks at those forums will appraise the senior government officials and even report to the President on the performance of any Cabinet secretary, principal secretary, ambassador, or member of government or government agencies as to appropriate action .Local party leaders at county government level may similarly recommend the sacking of appointed executive officers in the interest of the party .This is not only dangerous; it is outright illegal. A president sworn to uphold the Constitution of Kenya cannot abrogate to himself and uneducated party hacks powers that totally flout the Constitution and the Public Officers Ethics Act. A public officer cannot act as an agent or further the aims of a political party, nor take orders from party officials! [email&#160;protected] Twitter: @MachariaGaitho email print email print Kenya is lobbying against the planned agreement between US and 12 Asian states for fear of losingPeres will be buried next to Rabin, who was assassinated in 1995 by a Jewish extremist opposed to