Supreme Court judge Smokin Wanjala on Saturday confessed that hearing the 2013 presidential election petition was his toughest assignment ever.Justice Wanjala told the Judicial Service Commission (JSC) that is interviewing shortlisted candidates for the Chief Justice s position that given a choice, he would not wish to adjudicate on a similar petition.He suggested that such petitions should be heard by seven High Court judges elected through a secret ballot rather than five Supreme Court judges. With an option, I would never want to sit and preside over an election petition matter. The criticisms that come are never jurisprudential. Whichever way you decide a presidential election petition, you will annoy half of the Kenyan people and you will make the other half very happy, said Dr Wanjala.He said after the ruling, only his children and his mother sympathised with him.The petition had been filed by Cord leader Raila Odinga challenging the election of Mr Uhuru Kenyatta citing irregularities and that it was not free and fair. He said the IEBC conspired to rig him out. He has since successfully led his troops to demand the disbandment of the commission.Dr Wanjala made a strong bid for the job, stating that should he occupy the office, he would continue with the transformative agenda started by Dr Willy Mutunga and take it to a logical conclusion before embarking on the innovation agenda.He said he will fast-track the setting up of an International Crimes Division by invoking his administrative authority as the consultations initiated by the retired Dr Mutunga are complete.He also pledged to dismantle cartels in the Judiciary if given the chance. I have heard of them though I am not aware of any kind of cartel as I have been performing my duties as a judge. If they exist I will trigger the process of their disruption and destruction. They must be destroyed. We cannot run as an institution of cartels, said Dr Wanjala.He lamented the lack of fully automated courts in Kenya and said he would realise that vision within two years of his tenure.HIS AGENDA The judge said he would want to be a CJ who will be associated with providing judicial insights and leadership, and a court that not only believes in unison but also diversity of ideas.He defended his decision which was among the majority ruling in the Two thirds gender principle petition at Supreme Court where he rooted for the progressive realisation of the principle. The Constitution gave a formulae on how that was to be realised in county assemblies and not in the National Assembly. It states that the state should take legislative and other measures to get the numbers. The Supreme Court is not to be blamed for the conundrum. We ruled for the progressive realisation and gave a timeframe, which has already lapsed, he added.He also defended his tenure at the then troubled Kenya Anti-Corruption Authority, saying he introduced many changes to aid the fight on corruption. He cited his reappointed as the Assistant Director of the commission as a challenging moment for him due to the public debate that ensued forcing him to quit in the public's interest.Dr Wanjala told the panel that the special Anti-Corruption courts had no value in the war on graft and should be disbanded.He also promised to eliminate the green robes worn by Supreme Court judges and have them dressed simply in official apparel. He said the reference to judges as Lords is imperial and should be done away with.He also said he would use his networks both locally and internationally to advocate hosting of biannual judiciary conferences to discuss questions and challenges of jurisprudence to strengthen the judiciary and to make it more efficient.The interviews continue at the Supreme Court tomorrow where initially non shortlisted applicants for the post will be interviewed with Paul Kongani Udoto facing the panel first. The High Court ordered the JSC to reconsider them.OTHER CANDIDATESProf Makau MutuaThe decision by the Judicial Service Commission to leave him out of the shortlist for applicants for the vacant position of the Chief Justice was the most controversial and motivated civil society groups to demand the shortlisting criteria used.After the 2013 General Election, he openly questioned the legitimacy of the Jubilee leadership. In December 2014, he tweeted after the IEBC and Supreme Court declared President Kenyatta the winner of 2013 elections thus: As a matter of freedom of conscience and thought, I can t accept Uhuru Kenyatta as President of Kenya. I can t and I won t. His strong political views aside, he boasts a rich academic and professional background. He is currently an advisor with the World Bank in Washington DC. Prof Mutua is a SUNY Distinguished Professor, The State University of New York s highest academic rank. He obtained his Doctor of Juridical Science (SJD) in June 1987 from Harvard Law School, Cambridge.He was chairman of the task force on the establishment of a Truth, Justice, and Reconciliation Commission (2003) and a delegate at the National Constitutional Conference and has often been closely linked to the Kenya Human Rights Commission.Justice (rtd) Aaron Ringera The former Court of Appeal judge is best remembered for leading the radical surgery in the Judiciary in 2003, which saw a number of his colleagues sent home over alleged integrity questions. Yet that is not all. He has also chaired the Kenya Anti-Corruption Commission (KACC), the predecessor to the current Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC). As KACC director, he served along with current Supreme Court Justice Smokin Wanjala and Justice Fatuma Sichale before they unceremoniously left office after Parliament protested against the decision of President Mwai Kibaki to unilaterally renew their terms. Since then, he has not had success in his bid to land a public service job. In 2011, he sued the Judicial Service Commission for snubbing him for Supreme Court jobs interview. In 2013, on the advice of the State Law Office and informal advisors, President Uhuru Kenyatta appointed him to chair a tribunal that was to investigate the conduct of six members of the JSC.However, the tribunal was stopped by the court from executing its mandate. Were it not for Justice Odunga s ruling, Justice (rtd) Ringera would not have had an opportunity to appear before the JSC to be interviewed for the vacant CJ job.Justice Prof Jackton Ojwang BomaOf the seven applicants whose candidacy was reinstated by the High Court, Justice Ojwang is one of the three well known faces. He is currently a Supreme Court judge. He joined the Judiciary as a High Court Judge in October 2003 and served for eight years in the same position before he was appointed to the inaugural bench of the Supreme Court of Kenya on June 16, 2011. While serving in the Supreme Court, the man who had previously spent considerable time in the academia in 2015 received a second doctorate in law at the University of Nairobi (UoN).Despite his stellar academic qualifications, he has often been portrayed as pro-system and was on the side of retired Deputy Chief Justice Kalpana Rawal and Justice Philip Tunoi as the two mounted a legal challenge against the Judicial Service Commission to retire them at 70. He was also part of the seven judge bench that presided over the 2013 presidential election petition, which opposition supporters of CORD leader Raila Odinga have often criticised. Paul Andrew Kongani Udoto KonganiIf there is an award for daring, Mr Kongani would certainly get it. Still a law student at Kenya School of Law, Mr Kongani dared to register his interest in the vacant CJ job, something some senior lawyers including probably his lecturers could not. But that is not all, Mr Kongani, according to Nairobi News took 11 years to complete a degree in law.He is the least known among the 13 applicants who had expressed their interest in the CJ job and as he faces the JSC on Monday, it would be interesting to find out if there are any petitions from the public opposing his candidacy. He dared and Monday will be his big day, thanks to Justice Ojwang s ruling that reinstated the seven applicants the JSC had left out in the shortlist. email print email print The first batch of doctors will be promoted by October 7. The nine IEBC commissioners will know their individual payouts on Monday.