Dala Sevens runners up Kenya Harlequin will be out to stop leaders Homeboyz march to the National Sevens Series title in this weekend s inaugural Nanyuki Sevens at the Nanyuki Sports Club.Quins, who lost 48-5 to Homeboyz in last Sunday s Dala Sevens Main Cup final in Kisumu, launch their title hunt against Makueni in Pool B at 10.36pm in the series fifth and penultimate leg. Makueni replaced Nondies who have pulled out of the competition due to injuries in their squad.Quins will then come up against Catholic Monks and Mwamba in their final pool matches as they chase their second win of the season.Quins lie second in the Series standings on 73 points, nine behind leaders Homeboyz who are on 82 points going into the final two legs. They beat Homeboyz 19-14 last month to win the Driftwood Sevens at the Mombasa Sports Club before their loss last weekend.Quins coach Charles Cardovillis has effected two changes in the squad, bringing in William Mawira and Stanley Lunanu in place of Herman Humwa and Godfrey Okoth. Scrum-half Eden Agero also makes a return after recovering from a knock sustained at the Driftwood Sevens as Brian Maina is rested. The race is still open and if we can win in Nanyuki this weekend, the advantage shifts right back to us. There is still all to play for, Cardovillis told Saturday Nation Sport.Series leaders Homeboyz who are in Pool A can clinch their maiden Series crown if other results go their way. Last weekend s triumph against Quins in Kisumu saw them claim their second win of the season after their win in at Prinsloo Sevens.They also reached the final at Kabeberi and Driftwood Sevens. The djs will open their account against Mean Machine at 10am followed by matches against home side Nanyuki Jackals at 12.24pm before meeting reigning series champions Nakuru in their final Pool A clash at 4.10pm.Homeboyz coach Simon Odongo wants his charges to be consistent as they close in on a maiden title. Our aim is to go all the way and build an unassailable lead on the series after this round. The depth of our squad has also helped us a lot with so many matches along the way, Odongo said.Kenya Sevens international Oscar Ayodi and new signing Tony Owuor are set to make their bow for the club. Champions Nakuru who are placed eighth with 38points will be aiming to improve after losing in the plate semi-final in Kisumu.Kenya Cup winners Kabras Sugar headline Pool C and will come up against Kenyatta University s Blak Blad while Impala face Kisii. email print email print The Judicial Service Commission (JSC) has picked Court of Appeal Judge David Maraga for the postDuring the vetting by the Judicial Service Commission, Justice David Maraga portrayed himself as