 ON-THE-SPOT FINES for minor traffic offences are a great idea. Even better if the list was purged of technical and language errors, ambiguities and anomalies.By far the best law is the sixth item on the list which says there will be an instant Sh10,000 fine for (causing obstruction by) allowing a vehicle (to remain in a position) on the road (so as) to obstruct or cause inconvenience to other traffic using the road. Language errors and ambiguities in brackets.This is the nearest thing we ve ever had to a clearway law which, as this column has often asserted, could do more to improve traffic flow and road safety than any other single and viable measure. Vigorous enforcement of this rule would improve our motoring experience and safety instantly, universally and enormously. At near-zero cost or delay. Anything which stops on any road (in any position ) in an otherwise flowing stream of traffic is obstructive. Anything which remains on a road while travelling inordinately slowly well below the speed limit or the ambient flow can be even more obstructive. And inconvenient. And dangerous.The culpability of donkey carts, mkokoteni and herds of nomadic cattle on arterial highways (in city or inter-city) is self-evident. As is anything placed on or built into the road which brings flow to a juddering halt (spikes, bumps the shape of logs, messy roadworks etc). GLORIOUS EXCEPTIONBut so, too, is any motor vehicle which does not cruise at or very near the maximum speed that is allowed-and-safely-possible on any stretch of road. That means a wake-up or get-off call to thousands of vehicles (especially but not only trucks) which chronically travel at less than half the ambient traffic speed. The problem with a law like this, and many others which actually constitute the most disruptive and dangerous offences (and which are never prosecuted) is that they are moving violations. That requires enforcement officers to have advanced driving experience and a vehicle. Few of our traffic police have either, and most of them have neither.But here is a glorious exception. Obstruction/inconvenience caused by a slow vehicle can be spotted by a man on foot, and doesn t require even a good pair of running shoes to chase and catch the offending vehicle. The clue, visible from miles away, is called a tailback . Any vehicle causing one of those can be photographed from a distance for unassailable evidence, apprehended, and carted away on a low-loader that preferably is fitted with an accelerator pedal.The worldwide protocol, on which our traffic laws are based, is that any vehicle (or driver) unable to maintain the ambient speed should not be allowed on the road at all! If, for any reason, such a vehicle must use an arterial highway then it is legally obliged to frequently pull off the road to allow the tailback to clear.The new instant fines system, and the laws it covers, and the way it will be enforced, leaves much scope for the bizarre. But the motoring public will try harder to understand what driving through a pavement or part of a body means, and develop huge tolerance for all the other anomalies if just the one rule about obstruction and inconvenience is at long, long, long last addressed. In all its manifestations. email print email print The committee dismissed three objections filed against his the nomination. Ms Waiguru has denied any active role in the scandal, saying she was a whistle-blower.