Students of Kaaga Girls High School staged their award winning play on community policing to hundreds of people in Meru Town at the weekend.The school presented the play to drive the message home that everybody has a part to play in security, especially with the increase in terrorism and the growing number of students being recruited into militant groups.In 'The Last Hostage', the local community ignores warning signs, only to regret later when some of its own members, who are students, turn against it. Apart from raising awareness, the play was performed to celebrate the school s sterling performance in the 2016 drama festivals. The play was performed for the public at Three Steers Hotel in Meru.It revolves around a young girl, Isabella, who faces rejection from her schoolmates and teachers. She is expelled from school for alleged theft and does not find solace at home, therefore, turning to an illegal gang, where she is radicalised.During the annual Kenya Schools and Colleges Drama Festival held earlier this year in Meru County, the play scooped various trophies.NYUMBA KUMIIt won in the Nyumba Kumi category, a government project, which encourages people to take part in ensuring their own security by rooting out evil elements in their community. The project is headed by retired administrator Joseph Kaguthi.County leaders, members of the Judiciary, school managers and the business community who attended the performance expressed support for its public staging, saying it would create awareness that security begins at home.Kaaga Girls High School Principal Eunice Maek with the cast of the award-winning play, 'The Last Hostage'. PHOTO | ANTHONY NJAGI | NATION Theatre away from the festival; this idea must be spread across all regions, said the school s Principal Eunice Maeke. The public must also be informed through drama, she added.Imenti North MP Rahim Dawood hailed the play, which took the overall runner-up trophy, for its relevance and clarity in delivering the message. Mr Dawood presented the trophies they won during the national festival, which included.They included awards for best costume and d cor and most original play. BEST ACTRESSThe school also produced the best actress in the festival, Victoria Nkatha, the first runner-up actress, Lorna Kendi, and the most promising actress, Ruby Wairimu.The play was also judged to be the best item on family values.Ms Maeke said the play was so relevant that the school was invited to be a guest performer at the inaugural East African Regional Festival held in Uganda in July 2016. The festival is aimed at bringing together East Africa s top artistic talent.Members of the cast of the award-winning play, 'The Last Hostage , by Kaaga Girls High School display their trophies on September 2, 2016 at Three Steers Hotel. PHOTO | ANTHONY NJAGI | NATIONRELEVANT MESSAGE The play has a message that resonates with the public. It not only entertains, but also passes a very a relevant message, said Ms Mueke.According to her, the play will be presented in Nairobi and other counties in the near future after its warm reception in Meru.The play was written by Davis Nato and produced by the principal. It was directed by Davis Nato, Haward Lumumba, Peter Gitau and Charity Muriuki.Guests at the event paid Sh3,000 to watch the production and have dinner. The show is in support of a modern e-library. Over the years, analysts have said the talent during the annual festival is simply mind boggling, but year in, year out the question has been: What next after the Kenya National Drama Festival? email print email print Ms Tutui said the court would have given orders for immediate realisation of the rule. But the passport was not stamped, meaning he did not pass through the immigration desk.