Nancy Chelagat lit up Team Kenya s camp in Rio de Janeiro on Wednesday night after picking herself up from an earlier disastrous race to qualify for the 1,500m T11 women s final.Tipped as a medal prospect, Chelagat had a horrible start to the Games after she failed to qualify for the women s 200m final three days ago. However, on Wednesday evening at the Olympic Stadium in Rio, she showed character to storm to the final of the 1,5000m after finishing second in a personal best of 4 minutes, 48.70 seconds.Pre-Games favourite China s Zheng Jin won the race in 4.47.36, a Paralympic record.Brazilian Bazone Teixeira came third on 5.06.09 to miss out on qualification, while South African Louzanne Coetzee was disqualified for a lane infringement.Jin is also the world record holder with a time of 4.44.06 which she set in Incheon, Korea, in October 2014.With a final ticket in the bag, Chelagat s focus will be on how to work on her endurance and mental strength when she takes to the track on Saturday. Besides facing Jin, Chelagat will also battle for gold with Colombia s Arango Buitrago, who won the second semis heat in 4.58.43 and Mexican Rodriguez, who came second in 5.01.47 to also qualify. We are determined to lift our country s flag high. We were given an opportunity to come to Brazil for the Games and do the job and we are taking it seriously in the two races left, team manager John Tita told Saturday Nation Sport on phone from Rio shortly after Chelagat confirmed her place in the final. Kirwa made us proud by winning gold in the 5,000m T13 and Chelagat also qualified for the final. We are confident that the two will increase our medal tally. Kenya has so far bagged five medals - three gold and two bronze.At the same time, sprinter Henry Nzungi was last night set to battle it out in the semi-final of the men s 200m T12 eyeing a ticket for Saturday s final.Nzungi, clustered in heat four, was set to face Spaniard Martinez Munar, Mexican Gonzalez Sauceda and Lesotho s Mothebe Selo. The ten-day event ends on Sunday at the Olympic Stadium with the marathon finals, sitting volleyball and Wheel chair rugby being the last events. Kenya has no representation in either of these categories. email print email print If Parliament endorses his nomination, he will be formally appointed by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Justice David Maraga portrayed himself during his interview as having an untainted past.