Cometh the moment, cometh Homeboyz Rugby Football Club!This is what Homeboyz fans will be singing as their team await with bated breath for the crowning moment when Christie Sevens, the last leg of the 2016 National Sevens Series, goes down at the RFUEA ground on Saturday.It s Kenyatta University s Blak Blad and Stormers that stand between Homeboyz and their maiden National Sevens Series title.Homeboyz, who prevailed at Prinsloo, Dala and inaugural Nanyuki Sevens to lead lead the Series with 104 points, only need five points at Christie Sevens to clinch the national title, a feat they can achieve by reaching Bowl semi-final.Victories against Blak Blad at 10am and Stormers at 12.40pm should not only be enough for the deejays to spin to their sixth consecutive Cup quarter-finals appearance but also the championship win.The Homeboyz s last Pool A duel is against outgoing champions Nakuru at 4.40pm.Homeboyz have met Nakuru thrice this season, winning all the encounters. Homeboyz coach Simon Odongo has rested Oscar Ayodi, Tony Owuor and Kevin Masai, who featured in Nanyuki, for Kenya Sevens player Augustine Lugonzo, who is making his first appearance in the Series, Jeff Oluoch and Tony Onyango.Owuor and Ayodi sustained injuries in Nanyuki where the deejays edged out Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) 10-0 in the Cup final to go 18 clear on the series. We want to win the first two matches and wrap up our first Series victory then focus on winning our maiden Christies too, said Odongo, who rallied his charges. I have told them to go all out as if the Series are just starting. Kenya Harlequin, on 86 points, who are the only other title contender at this stage, are second seeded in Pool D. They take on Daystar at 12:20pm, Mean Machine at 3pm and the pool s top seeds Mwamba at 5:40pm. IMPROBABLE OUTCOMEQuins, who have 86 points must win Christies and hope that Homeboyz fail to make it to the Bowl stage, an almost improbable outcome. Quins main pool rivals Mwamba will unleash Kenya Sevens player Billy Odhiambo, whom they signed from Strathmore Leos.Quins coach Charles Cardovillis, however, conceded that the Series title was beyond their reach after they slipped in Nanyuki with a Plate victory. We now just want to finish on a high by winning our home tourney for a strong second place in the Series, said Cardovillis. Cardovillis has made three changes to the side that won Plate in Nanyuki, bringing in Frank Wanyama, William Ambaka and Brian Maina for Kevin Angote, Hosea Odhiambo and Stanley Lunani. Tournament s second seeds KCB are chasing after their first title of the season. email print email print Mukidza prominently featured for Kenya Simbas in their wins over Brazil and Hong Kong in Test matches. The Court of Appeal judge said he is excited over his nomination as the new Chief Justice.President Kenyatta is expected to send Justice Maraga&#039;s name to the National Assembly for