The numbers three, nine and 14 have acquired a significant meaning in Emannuel Gitau s life. For the past 14 years, Gitau has been ailing from kidney malfunctions and has been on dialysis ever since. Incredibly, Gitau has had four kidney failures, three transplants and nine years of zero kidneys in his body.Gitau s chilling story is contained in a new book published to celebrate his inspirational triumph over a malignant ailment and strong faith in God. At 32 years of age, Gitau could ordinarily be too young for a biography. But the severe anguish that fate has subjected him to in the last 14 years is a story that demands to be told in indelible ink and recorded for posterity.The book, written by Dr Stephen Kimotho, a journalism lecturer at USIU, tells in sombre details the epic battle that Emmanuel has fought with the disease. He suffered what was initially dismissed as a stomach upset, only to be the beginning of a rapid downhill slide of his health to a morbid brink.COUNTLESS HOSPITAL VISITSHe has been to hospital countless times, undergone 14 operations, from a minor abdominal operation at Kijabe Mission Hospital to three kidney transplants in India. Now without a kidney and having to contend with permanent dialysis, his is a medical puzzle of sorts.After the last kidney failed and doctors despaired, they told him that he could only live for three months. But nine years later, he is running his catering business in Ruiru and driving to Kenyatta National Hospital for dialysis twice a week! I ve gone through many medical procedures. Indeed more than I can even remember, Gitau says in the book.Giatu s health tribulations began in 2003 when he experienced intermittent abdominal pains. This worsened progressively and was taken to Kijabe Mission Hospital, where he underwent his first surgery to stop the internal bleeding. It was while attending his post operation reviews at the hospital that doctors noticed something untoward in his kidneys.The doctors referred Gitau, then a Form 3 student, to KNH for further examination and possible dialysis. It turned out to be the first step in what has become an excruciating physical, social and psychological journey.Soon the doctors broke the sad news that Gitau s kidneys had failed and a transplant was mandatory. He was very devastated. His mother thought that the doctors could have broken the news better considering his tender age and magnitude of the news.This threw the shaken family and friends into a flurry of fund-raisings for his transport and treatment in India. His mother readily offered to donate her kidney. After numerous funds drives and air tickets courtesy of Kenya Airways, Emmanuel and his parents embarked on the ominous journey to the Institute of Kidney Disease &amp; Research in India (IKDRI).Once at the hospital, things didn t work out well and his mother was disqualified. They had no time to discuss who else to donate and his father became the default donor rather than travel back 4,700 km from Gujarat without the operation.However, his father s kidney failed just a day after the successful transplant. Thus, another crisis ensued and Mumo, his eldest brother travelled to donate his kidney. Emmanuel stayed on dialysis for two months awaiting his brother s arrival and successful transplant.Mumo s kidney worked fairly well for Emmanuel albeit with frequent scary flare-ups that necessitated several operations to stabilise it. After 10 months in hospital, Emmanuel returned home with hopes that the worst was over.Barely seven months later, his condition deteriorated again, prompting a second referral to the Indian hospital. His arrival coincided with the outbreak of a chikungunya epidemic in the area. The disease, thought to originate from East Africa, bore similar feverish symptoms as he had. He was immediately put in an isolation ward.But after several tests and dialyses, the doctors declared the kidney failed and third transplant was inevitable. One of his cousins volunteered. However, as if dogged by a jinx, his cousin s kidney could not match his.The next default donor was his sister, Eunice. Everyone was upbeat about it and he returned home.However, his sister s kidney only worked well for a month then things went awry. By then, the doctors had ruled out any further transplants with the eerie caution that survival rarely exceeds three months. email print email print The group has also continued to carry out deadly attacks on targets across the border in Kenya. The driver lost control, veering off the road.