Hidden in the woods along Nairobi s General Mathenge Drive was a most charming unassuming restaurant, which for years remained the city s best kept secret, crafting excellent dishes for those privileged enough to have found it. Needless to say, I was among the fortunate few. So I was not very amused when Le Rustique shifted base and moved some 195 kilometres to the foothills of Mt Kenya, in the town of Nanyuki.However, last weekend, my friends and I piled into the car and headed out on a camping trip in the Nanyuki area and there are no prizes for guessing what our first stop was as soon as we entered the town. It was not as sunny as we would have liked and so we decided that we would take refuge in the indoor restaurant around a roaring fire. I m all for terrace dining but the ambience at Le Rustique is welcoming and made me feel quite at home. High ceilings with rustic chandeliers helped to assuage my claustrophobic anxieties and the large windows and open plan made for airy spaces. The Mediterranean style bungalow is decorated to give Moroccan lounge vibes with brass and earthen instalments which are tastefully designed. In that biting cold, I did not dare to venture into the sprawling gardens which seemed excellent for a sunny Sunday s brunch with family.Rather than order from the entr e section of the menu, I chose to order three starters and pig out. Le Rustique has been consistent in producing the most amazing feta and coriander samosas for ages. So naturally, I ordered those along with their spicy chicken wings and sizzling prawns. Quite the genius selection if you ask me. Meals here take a while to come out of the kitchen which is not always a bad thing as it persuades me that all the ingredients are fresh and not precooked and frozen.I generally gave up on eating any samosas anywhere for all the oil that they are usually drenched in. From roadside stalls to five-star eateries, oil content seems something many chefs have been unable to manage, but these guys never fail. The disparate textures of crisp, crunchy pastry and melted feta were fun to feel in my mouth and the powerful flavour of coriander provided a lovely taste of earthy freshness. The taste of my chicken wings was well enhanced by a marinade of soy sauce, chilli, paprika and garlic coated with flour. This would have been a little too hot to consume comfortably were it not for the blue cheese dressing which accompanied it. I requested a few celery sticks and the chef was kind enough to send some out. By the time my third dish came, I was well stuffed and only gobbled it down because the aroma of the garlic and lime sauce with sizzler prawns could not be resisted. Leaving the establishment, I smiled to myself and thought, other than a change in location, one of my favourites had not faltered in their pursuit for excellence and quality. email print email print If Parliament endorses his nomination, he will be formally appointed by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Justice David Maraga portrayed himself during his interview as having an untainted past.