Senators will hold a two-day special sitting starting Wednesday to decide whether to form a special committee to look into the proposed impeachment of Nyeri Governor Nderitu Gachagua or consider the matter as a whole House. They will also consider a Bill on party-hopping and another on electoral offences passed by MPs last week. The lawmakers were asked on Tuesday to break their month-and-a-half-long recess and present themselves in the House to decide on how to handle the impeachment, the fourth in the Senate's four-year history. The Senate s Rules and Business Committee, chaired by Speaker Ekwee Ethuro, met on Tuesday afternoon and agreed on the special sittings. The committee normally sets the business for the House. Majority Leader Kithure Kindiki told the Nation that the impeachment request was received in the Senate on Monday. The law requires that the Senate must consider it within seven days. The matter is part of what we will be handling tomorrow, said Prof Kindiki. He also said senators will be looking into the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill that was forwarded to them by the National Assembly following its passage last week and which seeks to stop post-primaries party-hopping.They will also look at the Election Offences Bill. The two Bills were developed by the select committee on the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. SPECIAL COMMITTEE Mr Gachagua is the fourth governor to be recommended for impeachment by ward representatives and as has happened previously, he will likely face a special Senate committee that will delve into the accusations before making recommendations to the full House. Of the last three, only Embu Governor Martin Wambora was found guilty of the accusations against him and his impeachment was confirmed. He, however, contested the decision in the court and his impeachment was quashed. Kericho Governor Paul Chepkwony and his Murang a counterpart Mwangi Wa Iria kept their jobs after the accusations against them were dropped by the lawmakers. email print email print Ms Tutui said the court would have given orders for immediate realisation of the rule. But the passport was not stamped, meaning he did not pass through the immigration desk.