Ezekiel Mutai of Nandi Bears Club sunk a birdie on either nine for a total of 42 points to win the fifth leg of the Nation Media Group golf series at Kitale Club on Saturday.The 34-year-old handicap 19 physician from Nandi Hills launched his quest for the title with a par on the opening hole and followed it up with a birdie on a par-five second hole. However, bogeys on fourth, sixth and eighth holes followed by a double-bogey on ninth after he shanked his second shot to the right and lost the ball slowed him down to 23 points on the first nine. Mutai could have sunk another birdie on par-five 11th but his tee shot went into the bunker and he double-bogeyed par-three 13th before having another double bogey on par-four 16th after he overshot the greens. Mutai closed with two bogeys on the back nine for 19 points, beating home player Fandi Shiyuka to second place by a margin of three points.Shiyuka carded 20 points on the first and 18 on the second nine for a total of 38 stabbleford points. It was a great round of play in good weather despite the two double-bogeys at the back nine, said Mutai. Kitale s John Chemoges (18) carded 38 points to beat Mahesh Hari (19) and Ali Babuh (18) on countback with 38 points.Interestingly, each of the three players returned to the clubhouse with 17 points on the front nines and 21 on the back nines. Muthaiga s Richard Wanjala (27) was the guest winner, while Henry Owuor scored 28 points to lift the staff prize. Josephine Chesang (37) was the best lady golfer, beating P. Kisuna to second on 34 in the championship that drew 80 golfers. IMPARTIAL COVERAGEFirst and second nine winners were Dickson Masindano (19 points) and Solomon Kariuki (22) respectively.The one-day championship of the Series that also took golfers to Nanyuki, Mombasa, Kisumu and Machakos was graced by the Trans Nzoia governor Patrick Khaemba, Nation Media Group Editor-In-Chief Tom Mshindi and nominated senator Zipporah Kittony.Khaemba underscored the important role Nation Media Group has played over the last 55 years in shaping the destiny of the country. I am sure Nation Media Group will continue to lead the pack especially as we head into the election year with impartial coverage, said Khaemba, who hailed the devolution process saying it has brought vital services to common people at the grassroots. Many people especially in Nairobi have negative opinion about devolution but they need to visit the countryside to see the massive transformation, said Khaemba, who singled out his county that now has a referral hospital. Khaemba noted that his county also leads with 25 village polytechnics in the country.Mshindi said with Kitale being a farming town, they have partnered with Egerton University to dedicate a pullout, Seeds of Gold in Saturday Nation newspaper to those involved in agriculture. This region has been patronised our products well and we need to appreciate them with good products too, said Mshindi. email print email print The Interior Cabinet secretary said politicians who stormed the campus should either apologise or The Export-Import Bank would assist Bechtel in developing the project.