The Judicial Service Commission returns on Tuesday for the final leg of interviews to fill the vacant position of the chief justice after a four-day break.The commission did not sit on Thursday after the applicant who had been scheduled to be interviewed, David Mwaura Waihiga, bowed out.Mr Waihiga was the second applicant to opt out of the race after law student cum carpenter Paul Andrew Kongani Udoto, 39, on Monday told the commission that he did not meet the 15 years minimum legal experience requirement for the job. The commission resumes its search with an interview of Supreme Court judge Jackton Boma Ojwang .Justice Ojwang joined the Judiciary as a High Court judge in October 2003 and served for eight years until June 16, 2011 when he was appointed to the Supreme Court bench. On Wednesday, it will be the turn of the second female applicant Lucy Wanja Julius, 47.Ms Julius was admitted to the bar in 1992 and currently serves as a commissioner in the Commission for University Education. She is also the legal advisor to Land Cabinet Secretary Jacob Kaimenyi. She was a director in the Kibaki Tena Campaign team in 2007 and was the executive director of Narc-Kenya.On Thursday, the State University of New York Professor Makau Mutua will sit before the commission.I CAN'T AND I WON'TProf Mutua had not been shortlisted for the job. This was basically seen as the reason why the commission was asked to publish the criteria used to draw up the shortlist. The commission made it clear that the candidates had been told why they were not shortlisted. The chairman of the interview panel said it would be unethical to make such reasons public to any other person other than the applicants. But she said the applicants were free to make the reasons public if they want to. Prof Makau did not do so.Yash Pal Ghai of the Katiba Institute and Kenya Section of International Commission of Jurists Samuel Mohochi went to court over this.Prof Mutua s interview may be fiery given his strong political views, which have included questioning the legitimacy of the Jubilee government. "As a matter of freedom of conscience and thought, I can t accept Uhuru Kenyatta as President of Kenya. I can t and I won t, Prof Mutua had tweeted in December 2014.This was after the electoral commission and later the Supreme Court declared President Kenyatta the winner of 2013 elections.Following the reinstatement of applicants who had been left out of the shortlist, interviews start on September 26 . email print email print Kenya is lobbying against the planned agreement between US and 12 Asian states for fear of losingPeres will be buried next to Rabin, who was assassinated in 1995 by a Jewish extremist opposed to