May you live in interesting times, is an ancient Chinese curse. To some people who don t think deeper, it sounds like a blessing. It is not, since the interesting times are the period when life is not certain. Those who lived in Europe in 1914 to 1918 and 1939 to 1945 lived in interesting times since it was during wars that almost decimated their population and affected every person.In Kenya, we seem to live under this curse especially where our sports are concerned. I had the misfortune of working for an employer right after high school, before reporting to the university. The employer was the shameless, capitalist type. From the 21st of the month to the 10th of the next month, he became unbearable until we all secretly wished him dead! He worked himself up with anger and pushed everybody around, he threatened to sack the whole lot and employ new people. The main source of his ire was the fact that he had to pay salaries!He never liked paying at all. If he had his way, all workers in this world would be working pro bono. He would insult every worker, telling them: you have done nothing this month, but I am paying you simply because I am a generous person. I happened to be at a press conference where he was seated amongst Kenya Federation of Employers (FKE) officials. Since then, I have not recovered from shock and I still hold that federation in extreme contempt. With such a member appearing on TV beside them, what message was the federation sending to the country?PAY PLAYERS' SALARIESIn line with this, I suppose the employer of a Kenyan Premier League club based in western Kenyan is also a member of FKE. Last week, players unwisely asked him to pay their salaries and all hell broke loose. The employer sent goons to discipline the players for them to learn a lesson. The goons beat up all the players who had the impudence to ask for their pay, spoiling the chairman s mood.Some players have not been paid since June and their families are suffering, but the employer does not see it that way. I guess he must be wondering why a person who just kicks a ball round a pitch should be paid at all! Some of the shaken players fled from their hotel in Awasi and slept in the open before leaving for Nairobi without reporting the unfortunate incident to the police because they know too well the employer is cosy with the lot. The aggrieved players protested their beating at the Kenyan Premier League offices in Nairobi. They have vowed not to return to Awasi. The employer has denied any involvement in the incident, claiming he wasn t near the scene of crime. But 23 people allege they saw him slapping a player. He insists someone else impersonated him.Anything can happen in this beloved country of ours, including a person impersonating himself. We don t know how the team will complete their remaining fixtures. We don t know how the employer will solve the matter. The whole saga is shameful. May the employer live in interesting times![email&#160;protected] email print email print Ms Tutui said the court would have given orders for immediate realisation of the rule. But the passport was not stamped, meaning he did not pass through the immigration desk.