It was early afternoon, after a light lunch, and a small group of practitioners and law teachers gathered at a beautiful terrace, overlooking the city.The conversation was deep and engaging, though for many it might appear terribly boring. We were discussing the meaning of legal reasoning. What is it? Laura Young, a senior partner at Wang &amp; Wang Advocates, a reputable California law firm with international offices in Asia and South America, had asked. Everyone chipped in.After much discussion, we formulated a working definition. Legal reasoning is, the use of logic to distinguish facts and law in different situations from different types of sources (statutes, cases, legislative policy statements, etc.), to make and interpret written and oral submissions, in a manner that leads to the greatest consistency and predictability for the citizenry, understanding that societal values and priorities may change over time. Charles McClain, a jurisprudence professor at the University of California-Berkeley, posed a bigger challenge after reaching this convoluted and difficult definition.McClain mildly said, Wait a minute, there is a question I'd not thought about before. Do our lay jurors engage in legal reasoning when they deliberate with a view to reaching verdicts? Or how about the laypeople, sometimes called assessors, who, along with professional judges, make up the mixed tribunals that decide cases in so many parts of the civil law world? DISMISSED AND RIDICULEDWhen McClain threw this uphill question, he had in mind a much more complicated idea. He had in mind a famous exchange between King James I of England and the great Elizabethan jurist Lord Chief Justice Edward Coke.The king had suggested to Lord Coke that he himself might preside over the courts to be, as he put it, "a check on the law in the last resort." The Chief Justice replied that however great his majesty's natural reason, intelligence, common sense and education might be, they would not be sufficient for the task, which required special training and experience. The law, Coke said, is an artificial reason. What exactly did Coke mean? We could spend weeks and weeks arguing about the law. This has been the case for centuries, and in every intelligent class I teach. I am sure the discussion is not about to end.I have been thinking about Coke's reply to the King. Is this why kings and presidents have manipulated the law century after century? Is this why our old constitution underwent 29 amendments, touching almost 40 different thematic areas? Possibly, "artificial" for Coke meant "objective beyond our grasp", which is often blurred by our limitations, culture and subjectivity. Coke s coherent sincerity and upright intellectual behaviour eventually cost him his job as Chief Justice, for he ended up being dismissed and ridiculed. He later joined politics.I find it interesting that this often happens to the most coherent men and women in history, no matter how intelligent they are. Perhaps this is the cost of values. WHAT LAW ISWe are living in a world that is radically different to that of Coke and King James. Nonetheless, our humanity remains the same, our sins haven t changed much and we are a constant variable in the universe.Our values may be reshaped here and there, repainted, repaired or destroyed, but they are still made of the same raw material.Law itself is the biggest challenge for the rule of law. What law is and its relation to justice have been elusive concepts in history, and remain so.Yesterday, I had an animated conversation with Karim Anjarwalla, Twalib Mbarak, John Harrington and Peter Odhiambo. I was showing them around the law school when we met a young law student, Abigail Kagai. She was deeply immersed in her books when I introduced her to the visitors. What are you reading? they asked. Abigail explained that she was reading about law and religion; their different but complementary roles in society, how they interplay.She went on to explain the different approaches public law has towards religion, secularism, theocracy, complementarity, subsidiarity, respect, autonomy, the importance of freedom and tolerance and the objection of conscience.Our animated conversation took a sudden, but real and more engaging, twist. Without much realisation we found ourselves grappling with legal reasoning to understand France s recent controversial ban on burkinis.Apart from the fact that we were all Kenyans, all of us were of different generations and diverse cultural and religious backgrounds.OPPRESSIVE TO WOMENThe burkini, a recent invention meant to give Muslim women the choice of showing less skin while bathing in public places, was banned in 30 French coastal resorts.The highest administrative court in France ruled that the bans are illegal, and The Guardian reports that more than 20 French mayors are refusing to lift their bans. Policemen have been photographed on beaches obliging Muslim women to remove their burkinis and be like the rest, more naked.The tension of the law is real. These events are taking us back to King James and Justice Coke s dilemma, which is one of the most essential aspects of any future change in legal education. For too long, we have taught and learnt law as a mechanical tool separated from social context, as if it were in a bubble.Human rights groups have said they will pursue the towns through the courts. Courts and politicians are reading from different scripts. The socialist prime minister, Manuel Valls, supports the ban and argues that the burkini is oppressive to women and that this is the confirmation of political Islam in the public place. Shereen El Feki told Blanca Britton of CNN that the assumption that headscarves are oppressive is dangerous. "I find it ironic that the argument that is often made against the hijab, 'oh these poor women, we must liberate them'. That assumption is quite oppressive, because you're assuming that these women have not made a choice, that they're incapable of making a choice."I find it even more dangerous that in most cases the ones speaking on behalf of such oppressed women are male politicians.BEACH CENSORSThe French mayors have caused a major problem. The French state, that has suffered serious terrorist attacks, may have naively created deeper rifts in a secularist society that is quickly becoming more and more religious.It seems the word liberal has become an oxymoron, so that if you don't think like us, you are not liberal enough, and that is forbidden. This is the ostracism of those who think differently, and there can be nothing less liberal than this. After all, the most pathetic thing in this debate is that the burkini is strikingly similar to the swimsuit invented by French designers at the opening of the twentieth century and every woman in France then would wear it at the beach.In fact, something conspicuously similar to a burkini won the Bathing Suit Day contest at Madison Square Garden in 1922. Swimsuit rules were so strict that 'Smokey' Buchanan from the West Palm Beach police force in the US was captured by cameras measuring (with a tape measure) the swimsuit of Betty Fringle on Palm Beach, to ensure that it conformed with regulations introduced by the beach censors in 1925.Nowadays, somebody, perhaps the King James of our story, or the artificiality of Coke s response, has imposed on women what seems to be a contradiction: go naked - the less you show the guiltier you are!Dr Franceschi is the dean of Strathmore Law [email&#160;protected]; Twitter:[email&#160;protected] email print email print No bank has collapsed due to lending to the so called financially marginalised sector. Mr Keriako Tobiko asked the Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinnet to probe the senator. But his speech was interrupted by the mourners.