Mary made a most unusual request when she visited the sexology clinic seven years ago. She wanted me to help her encourage her husband to continue having sex outside their marriage.Although she described her husband as a Casanova and a serial womaniser, she said she was more comfortable with that than with him asking her for sex. At first I thought this was because Mary was afraid her husband would infect her with a sexually transmitted infection, but Mary vigorously shook her head in disagreement when I asked her if this was so. He knows nothing about sex, she explained. He causes me pain when he touches my erotic parts. I dread having sex with him! Her whole body shook and she suddenly became agitated and teary. There was no doubt that the thought of having sex with her husband was giving her a panic attack.Mary had been avoiding going to bed before James, her husband, fell asleep. While in bed she would feel tense at the thought of him waking up and asking her for sex. She would not fall asleep until the wee hours of the morning. Then she would rush out of bed at the earliest opportunity in case James woke up and made advances. When he catches up with me once in a while and we have to do it, I freak out and helplessly let him do whatever he wants as I pray for strength to endure the agony, Mary explained, tears rolling down her cheeks. She said that afterwards, she felt sad, hopeless and dirty.I concluded that Mary suffered from sexual aversion disorder (SAD), a common problem that is often neglected. SAD is basically a morbid fear of sex. It can exist from the start or develop at any point in a relationship. Affected relationships become sexless and stand the risk of separation or divorce.TREATABLE CONDITIONIf you ever feel anxious, fearful and tense at the thought of having sex with your spouse, this could be a pointer to SAD. Many people also avoid situations that can lead to sex; for example, they stay away from bed for as long as their partner is awake.While in bed, affected people will try to put their spouses off. They may wear clothes that do not allow for skin to skin contact; they ensure that there is space between them in bed so that their bodies do not touch; they sleep facing away from their partner; they bring difficult conversations to the bedroom that draw them away from intimacy; they may even feign sickness or sometimes actually feel sick when everything else fails. In case sex happens, they do everything to make it short. At the end they feel angry, sad, useless and hopeless. Doctor, you are right about your description of my situation but you cannot blame me for it, Mary said. My husband doesn t know how to handle a woman. Well, there are many causes of SAD. If your spouse continuously mishandles you, you can develop SAD. This is because your mind gets conditioned to suffering as part of the sexual experience and so instinctively it finds ways to deal with it by making you evade sexual situations. You may also develop SAD if you suffered sexual assault at any point in your life. Some people also develop SAD due to fear of pregnancy or disease. Negative attitudes also have a big role in SAD. These are generally due to religious or cultural conditioning. I also fear disease, and our relationship has seen bad days in the recent past, Mary added.Although treatment of SAD is possible, your spouse has to commit to supporting you. Mary s husband agreed to learn sex skills and committed to fidelity as a starting point. He also committed to supporting Mary through sex therapy till recovery from the aversion. It took four months of intense therapy for Mary to overcome the disorder. As happens when couples commit to supporting each other, intimacy improved tremendously between Mary and James. Seven years later, James called to book an appointment because, as he put it, Mary was now more sexual than he was and he needed help to boost his libido and performance. email print email print The committee dismissed three objections filed against his the nomination. Ms Waiguru has denied any active role in the scandal, saying she was a whistle-blower.