National women s handball champions Nairobi Water have been handed a tricky draw at the Africa Club Champions League set for Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, from October 21 30.According to the draw conducted on Tuesday, the three-time national champions are in Pool D alongside defending champions Primero from Angola, TKC of Cameroon and newcomers Bandama HBC from Cote d Ivoire.Primero beat rivals Petro Atletico 23-21 in last year s final in Nador, Morocco to clinch their second successive title.Water, who will be making their fifth appearance at the continental showpiece, are targeting a semi-final slot at the 38th edition of the prestigious event. Founded in October 2010, Water, the only Kenyan side that has competed in the Africa Club Championships best performance was in 2014 when they reached the quarters.COACH CONFIDENTCoach Jack Ochieng termed the pool as unpredictable but remains confident of reaching the knockout stages. This is a tricky pool because we have never played any of the teams before. Draws have never favoured us but we are eager to improve this time round, Ochieng told Daily Nation Sport. Last year we finished last. If we can get at least two wins, we will enhance our chances of making it out of the pool, he added.Ochieng will be without key players Merina Andala, Cecilia Katheu, Tracy Awino and Jane Waithera, who are out on maternity leave. Midfielder Mitchelle Adhiambo, who has returned from maternity leave, is struggling with form. In their absence, captain Gladys Chillo and forward Phanice Kwamboka will lead the team s hunt for continental glory. The duo have been instrumental in the team s impressive domestic form, where they are four points clear at the top of the women s race.The team is currently training at the Nyayo National Stadium handball court ahead of the week-long annual competition. Group C will see FAP from Cameroon take on HC Heritage from Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Benin s ASPAC and hosts AS ONEA.In the men s competition, defending champions Zamalek from Egypt are in Group B together with Widad Smara from Morocco, FAP Yaound from Cameroon, JSK from DR Congo and hosts AS Douane.Reigning East and Central African champions Police of Rwanda are in Group A along with four-time winners Al Ahly (Egypt) and Esperance Sportive (Tunisia), who have won the competition once. Other teams in this group are Minuh from Cameroon and Congo Brazzaville s Calman. email print email print To President Zuma, Kenya is a conduit of illegal immigrants, a weakness that must be tamed before He shocked officers on Thursday morning saying he did not steal anything from the politician.