Dear Philip,This is a column I look forward to every Monday. I was in a relationship for three years. It left me bitter and angry with myself and my husband, who didn t really care about me. He was a very selfish man. Having walked out of this abusive marriage and not knowing exactly what made him act the way he did, I found solace in reading this column. I have learnt that my life could have turned out differently, had I known what I now know. I am not in a relationship at the moment but I regret the choices my husband made because he was a very angry and bitter man most of the time. He later married another woman, whom he abused badly. He was arrested but later released after he committed to go for help. As I read your responses to people in different stages of their marriages, I wonder what happened to love and mutual respect. I decided not to remarry, and I have learnt that I am not alone. As I learn more about relationships, the feelings of regret and bitterness I harboured for many years are slowly dissipating. I still have physical scars from the past, but I have decided to live my life and enjoy the freedom of knowing that my decisions and choices now matter and will determine who I want to become. Do you think I made the right decision? Some of my friends tell me that I am afraid, and that is why I do not what to get involved in another relationship. Hi,We are all created for relationships. We are involved in relationships in our families, at the work place, or social places. Relationships are meant to be a blessing, a place for nourishment, support, and security. So, for anyone entering a relationship leading to marriage, there needs to be a lot of disclosure. This calls for an open, honest environment. That is what gives a relationship its value system and character. Marriage must be about building confidence and trust in each other. These are the attributes that help cement a couple s connection. The abuse you experienced hurt you both emotionally and physically. It also interfered with the values you thought marriage stands for, including your self-esteem, which got dented in the process. Taking time to focus on yourself and seek renewal is commendable. I suggest that you focus on rebuilding and refocusing your life.I really don t know what kind of friends you are surrounded by, but I must say you have done well to regain your footing. For those who are dating, it is important to note that wounded and hurting people tend to hurt those close to them, or whom they associate with. Knowing the person you relate with well is key to analysing their habits and behaviour that could be detrimental to the relationship. We should refuse to be blinded in any way. We should refuse to be manipulated or intimidated by an abuser. As for you, the scars will remain as a reminder of someone who violated your trust. I don t think it is helpful to get into what triggered the abuse, although learning from your failures or pain helps you mature since past pain, if not handled properly, can fester in us, and thus prevent us from living freely. COMMENDABLE STEPAs you rejoice in your healing, celebrate the milestones you have achieved to get to where you are. I must commend you for the progress you have made in seeking personal renewal.I cannot say much about your ex-husband since I don t have much to go by. He made some bad choices that affected you and your relationship negatively. However, your decision to let go and seek healing has started you on an amazing path of self-discovery. Do not allow yourself to live in that world not even mentally or allow that past to weaken your resolve. For now you are not in any relationship. That is commendable! You need to be sure that you are in the right state of mind and heart to handle another relationship. It is important to realise that there are no guarantees in relationships, so your decision not to get involved in a relationship now is wise. Do not let anyone push you into compromising; it takes two to tango. Don t be anxious about what happens later. As you heal, you will be confronted with a choice. I suggest that you take one step at a time. Deal with any traces of fear, anxiety and lack of trust.Enjoy the company of your good friends and live positively. Don t let the scars of the past put imprison you. Remember, your friends might have your best interests at heart, but they cannot decide for you. email print email print Kenya is lobbying against the planned agreement between US and 12 Asian states for fear of losingPeres will be buried next to Rabin, who was assassinated in 1995 by a Jewish extremist opposed to