Kenya Harlequin and Nakuru are through to the semi-finals of the Impala Floodlit rugby tournament.Quins, who are chasing their fourth Floodlit title, edged out Mwamba 15-5 in a scrappy duel while Kenyatta University s Blad Blak, who trailed 0-5 at the break, failed to hold the momentum, losing 10-29 to Nakuru.Second-row Roxy Suchi, full back Eric Shikuku and Pius Shiundu scored a try each to power Quins to the semi-final while winger Matthew Wanjia scored Mwamba s lone try.Blind side flanker Charles Odongo touched down a brace of tries while Wayne Mungei, second row Charlton Mokua, Sammy Warui managed a try apiece for Nakuru, who failed to go past this stage last year. Henry Ayah made two conversions for the Great Rift side.Full back Levy Amunga curled over a penalty and converted outside centre Stormy Odhiambo s try for the university students. Well, it was a scrappy showdown but I am glad we managed to squeeze in the victory, said Quins tactician Joel Ng ang a adding that their scrummages and breakdowns were fluid as compared to their line-outs that were not good. We didn t achieve much as we had planned but it s normal in first games of the season. Ng ang a noted that their new signings John Okwara and Eric Kioko from Strathmore and Roxy Suchi played well but they have a lot to cover in terms of fitness.Nakuru coach Enos Otieno was glad that his charges were able to exorcise the demons that saw them lost at the quarter-final stage. It was a good result considering it was the first match of the season, said Otieno. Our combinations worked well, but we need to improve because the semis will be tough. Blak Blad coach Michael Tank Otieno conceded defeat saying Nakuru outplayed them at the breakdowns and set-pieces. We played well in the first half and we matched but we fizzled out later, said Otieno.Nakuru will meet the winners of the quarters match between defending champions Kenya Commercial Bank and Homeboys while Quins are up against either Strathmore University or last year s losing finalists Impala. The other two quarter-finals matches were played on Saturday night.Suchi drew first blood for Quins barely a few minutes when he touched down at the corner flag as both teams battled in an end-to-end battle where lack of support and poor ball handling cost Mwamba. Wanjia would draw level for Mwamba 5-5 but his side failed to seal the loopholes in the defence to let Shikuku and Shiundu slice through.In the Universities category, defending champions United States International University edged out Daystar 39-21 to advance to the semi-finals alongside newcomers Menengai Oilers who silenced Starthmore II 34-27.Also advancing to the semi-finals were Catholic University and Kenyatta University II after they waylaid technical University and Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and technology 20-14 and 14-8 respectively.Schools champions Laiser Hill had a walkover against Moi Forces Academy, who failed to show up for their duel. Laiser will now meet Lenana, who tossed out Mangu 10-7 in the semi-final. email print email print She suspects he could have lost his way at or near Eastleigh.French investigators have reopened their probe into the 1994 genocide-triggering assassination of