Self-defeating thinking might stop you from attaining your goals. But if your thoughts are making you feel seriously anxious or depressed, you should consult a counsellorOur thoughts define us. But what if they re wrong? Well actually, they often are. Our minds endlessly convince us of things that aren t true.Called cognitive distortions, they re hard to recognise, because they usually feel like that s just the way things are.What sort of things are we talking about? Here s just a few examples!Many people over personalise. So that driver who cut you up had it in for you. Actually he didn t even see you. You think your successes result from your character, while your failures were outside your control. So good marks mean you re intelligent, but your teacher is to blame for your poor grades.Maybe you mistake your emotions for reality? Then anxious feelings must mean there s real danger. Thoughts like this lead to obsessive compulsions. For example, checking the door again and again despite clearly remembering locking it.Maybe you focus on negatives while filtering out positives? Ignoring kind words and obsessing over just one critical comment? Either/or thinking means you think only perfect is good enough. So you label yourself a loser over one trivial mistake. Or you build insignificant events into the worst possible outcome. One poor mark means you ll flunk the entire course. When something bad happens, you expect it to continue forever.Perhaps you believe that feelings cause behaviour, but not the other way round? Then you ll think I ll exercise when I feel less tired, but never exercising will give me more energy. Perhaps you re sure you know what other people are feeling? You don t. Maybe you also focus on signs of social rejection? Then you ll instantly think a yawn means someone s not interested in you. When actually they were just up late last night.ENTITLEMENT FALLACIESEntitlement fallacies mean you think the rules that apply to others don t apply to you. For example, believing that it s OK not to wait your turn in a traffic queue. Sunk costs decision-making means you throw more money at a failing business just because you ve invested so much already. We overvalue possessions just because they re ours. So you ll probably overprice your house when you put it on the market.People hold false beliefs despite overwhelming evidence to the contrary. For example rejecting global warming, or believing they re overweight when they re not. Or they expect that other people will give in if they just pressure them enough. So they nag even harder trying to get their partner to change.Recognise any of these? Then you should change them. Because cognitive distortions can really mess up your life. But it s difficult, and takes lots of effort and practise. Just asking whether a thought might be wrong will help. So will collecting evidence against it. Or evaluating any mistake or failure on a scale of 0-10 to minimise either-or thinking. Or identifying external factors that might have contributed to your problem. But if your thoughts are making you feel seriously anxious or depressed, you should consult a counsellor.[email&#160;protected] email print email print It s a daily task; emphasise the positive, be nice to one another, think of each other s needs, and your union will go the long haul. Until yesterday, he was the presiding Judge of the Court of Appeal in Kisumu. It also shows that 13 per cent of Kenyans are addicted to alcohol.