Kenya s Bukembe and Barding on Wednesday sailed to the boys football quarter-finals at the East African Secondary School Games in Eldoret.The sides kept the country s hopes of winning the regional title alive after finishing top of their pools.Barding were the first to book a quarters slot after beating Ugandan champions SS Kibuli 1-0 in an entertaining match yesterday morning at Hill School grounds. Andrew Omondi s fourth minute goal was enough for the team to advance after their second win in the pool matches that steered them top of Pool A.Barding coach Chrisantus Otieno said they are motivated by how far they have come. This year was our first time at the nationals as well as the region event. We are motivated as we inch closer to winning this title, he said.In another match played in the afternoon, Bukembe beat Rwanda s College Gisenyii 2-1 in Pool C.Striker Jeremiah Wanyonyi gave Bukembe the lead in the 16th minute.College Gisenyii s Issa Bijimana cancelled goal after scoring a penalty he was awarded because he was fouled inside the box. Victor Omondi scored the winning goal for Bukembe in the 32nd minute, then the team defended viciously to the final whistle. St Mary s Kitende of Uganda overcame LT St Basile of Burundi 1-0 in another match. Alex Koma s solitary goal was enough to send the Burundian team to the quarters. National girls football champions St John s Kaloleni were held to a 1-1 draw by hard-fighting Masaka of Uganda yesterday. In spite of the draw, St Johns qualified for the quarter-finals from Pool B. Harambee Starlets striker Mwanahalima Dogo Adam put St John s ahead in the 22nd minute.Masaka, who were third at Ugandan championship, got their goal in the 68th minute, cancelling Kaloleni s lead through Babyrye Sawiya. Both teams neutralised their attempts at goal. When the final whistle blew, the Kenyan and Ugandan sides shared the spoils. In another girls clash, GS Remera of Rwanda floored Alliance of Tanzania 3-1. Captain Dorothee Mukeshimach scored for GS Remera in the 30th minute as Eruikia Karonga equalised for Alliance seven minutes later. Caliste Iradukunda netted the second goal for Remera five minutes after resuming for second half. Agathe Irukumutiwa scored the winning goal for Remera in the 63rd minute. email print email print The first batch of doctors will be promoted by October 7. The nine IEBC commissioners will know their individual payouts on Monday.