Many years ago, we had the misfortune of starting some youth football tournament during the school holidays. Two years later, the tournament had become quite attractive and many youth teams joined. Some older people thought it was a good thing since even their children were taking part. Those not stingy enough gave some prize money and a goat for the winners. That was when all our trouble began.The Football Association may allow you to play football without any gain, but when money is mentioned in the story, the script must change immediately. The only thing you can do is to give all the money and the goat to Football Kenya Federation (FKF) and go on with your innocent game or else you just stop the whole thing or get banned.One day, some few individuals had the to come and stop the matches from taking place. It was the time of Kenya Football Federation, and those people walked like VIP. One of them simply said: This tournament has to stop immediately. We are KFF officials of this region and our office was not informed of it. He must have thought being an official of the federation made him immune from blows and what we did to him he shall never forget. I saw him a few weeks ago having tea in some restaurant and he still has the scars from that period.Two weeks ago in this column, we begged FKF office and Extreme Sports to dialogue and solve their bickering but that plea was totally ignored.FKF went ahead and banned all those teams, coaches and referees for a period of six years for taking part in unsanctioned leagues. Extreme Sports are the owners of the Super 8 league where small youth teams are organised and play in tournaments.POPULAR INITIATIVEI have had the honour of attending several matches of that tourney and I must admit that it is a very popular initiative and many people attend to see how their neighbourhood lads fare. FKF has ordered that league stopped immediately unless they sanction it. Extreme Sports on the other hand has gone to court to stop FKF from stopping them.It is true that FKF is the body mandated by Fifa to run football in Kenya. It is also true that FKF can allow any other body to help in the running of football or even on the discovery of talent. Super 8 leagues have unearthed plenty of talent in this country. It gives young boys a forum to showcase their ability and be seen. It keeps the kids away from drugs and crime.FKF has no money to give to the branches around the country and outfits like Extreme Sports can be allowed to do that on their behalf. Two months ago, Extreme Sports boss was in Mombasa and handed a cheque of Sh7 million to the local FKF chapter to facilitate Super8 tournament and that must have been the straw that broke the camel s back. The company got sponsorship from SportPesa just like FKF and the Kenya premier League. That did not go down well with FKF supremos.In many countries in the world, the Football Association just helps in standardising football not to stifle the growth of the game.[email&#160;protected] email print email print A light aircraft belonging to SPC Aviation College has crashed at Nairobi National Park.The Kenyatta National Hospital has recorded about 100 deliveries daily, nearly three times more