Four days after the first anniversary of the inaugural Cool Waters Jazz Festival, Nigeria s Keziah Jones is scheduled to stage his debut performance in Nairobi, during the 2nd edition of the Cool Waters Jazz &amp; Roots Festival on 24th of September, 2016. The show, in which the Nigerian singer-songwriter and guitarist of the self-styled "Blufunk" will be performing at, will be culminating a three-day African celebration of jazz music at The Elephant on Kanjata Road Gate 3. The singer and instrumentalist will join music icon Franck Biyong from Cameroon and Botswana s Kabo Leburu for the boutique festival that will be held in multiple venues around Nairobi. The musical affair will also feature performances from Achien g Abura, Eddie Grey, Tetu Tutuma and Maia von Lekow whose latest single, Lola, is currently stirring waves across the Kenyan live music scene. This initiative seeks to enable music lovers to discover new voices, celebrate seasoned talent and explore unique sounds as we celebrate the values of culture, innovation and improvisation that Jazz and Roots music offers the world, said Abdi Rashid Jibril of Roots International who are the organisers of the festival. DISTINCT MUSIC AESTHETIC This year our plan is to bring a distinct music aesthetic that will enrich audience members and leave a lasting impression on the vibrant community of local and international music lovers in Nairobi. During the first edition of the jazz event, the festival was held at The Elephant. This is the first of future editions that will happen in more than one venue across the city of Nairobi. Advance Tickets are available at select Java Coffee House outlets and via Safaricom Paybill number 701924. The roster of artistes, venues and dates they will be performing on are as follows: 22nd September, Choices Pub &amp; Restaurant: Kabo Leburu (Botswana) 23rd September, Tree House Museum Hill: Keziah Jones (Nigeria) and Maia Von Lekow (Kenya) 24th September, The Elephant: Frank Biyong (Cameroon), Eddie Grey (Kenya), Achieng Abura (Kenya), and Tetu Tutuma (Kenya). email print email print The Interior Cabinet secretary said politicians who stormed the campus should either apologise or The Export-Import Bank would assist Bechtel in developing the project.