The national men's hockey began their World League One Series campaign with an emphatic 3-1 win over Nigeria at the Theodosia Okoh Hockey Stadium in Accra, Ghana on Friday night. Goals from captain George Mutira, Constant Wakhura and debutante Calvin Kanu gave Kenya a 3-0 lead after 24 minutes before the West Africans pulled a goal back through Sikiru Salawu.However, the Kenyans were dominant throughout and should have added to their tally in the second half with Nigeria unable to deal with their opponents fast pace. Kenya coach Meshack Senge was pleased with the result but urged his team to covert the many chances they create."I think we controlled this match from the onset and everyone effectively carried out their assigned tasks, Senge told Sunday Nation Sport on phone from Accra. It was important to get the good start as it gives us confidence heading to our next two matches." The two top teams in the men's and women's competitions will advance to the second round set for next year as they seek to qualify for the 2018 World Cup.Kenya beat Nigeria by the same margin in last year's Africa Cup of Nations-cum-2016 Olympics qualifier in Johannesburg, South Africa on their way to a third place finish. During last night's encounter, Senge started with five players who were in the side that beat Nigeria last year with Mutira starting upfront alongside Strathmore Gladiators forward Festus Onyango. The duo combined to give Kenya the lead after only eight minutes with Mutira firing past Nigerian keeper Oluyemi Siyanbola after receiving a through pass from Onyango.The Kenyan attackers continued to cause trouble for the Nigerian defence and in the 16th minute, Onyango was felled inside the Nigerian final circle resulting in a penalty for Kenya. Constant Mukhura gladly dispatched the penalty stroke to double Kenya's advantage at the start of the second quarter. The West Africans were finding it hard to get out of their own half with Kenya playing with confidence courtesy of their two goal advantage.The game was effectively over as a contest in the 24th minute when substitute Calvin Kanu justified his selection to the team with a well taken field goal to make it 3-0.The West African side, ranked 56th in the world, pulled a goal back a minute later in their first attack of the game. Salawu beat Kenyan keeper Linus Sang at his near post.GHANA 2-0 NIGERIAThe second half was largely comfortable for Senge's boys as they continued to create chances but failed to add to their first half tally. In other matches played on Friday, Ghana men's team whitewashed Namibia 7-1 in the last match of the day while their women's team beat Nigeria 2-0 in the opening match of the three day competition. Senge s charges face Ghana Sunday night at 10.45pm in what is expected to be a closely contested tie.The women's team was set to open their campaign against Nigeria Saturday evening at 6.15pm. email print email print The women s team will take to the pitch at 6.15pm Kenyan time.Kenya is lobbying against the planned agreement between US and 12 Asian states for fear of losingPeres will be buried next to Rabin, who was assassinated in 1995 by a Jewish extremist opposed to