Although man has made great strides since he discovered that he could actually roast deer, there are two desires that have continued to elude him since time immemorial; youth and immortality.At the very heart of the quest for youthfulness is the belief that when one is young, all is well with the world. Both the body and mind are at their peak. The elixir of vitality flows freely in one s veins, firing the spirit of adventure, fuelling the embers for love and filling one with an energy that is sufficient to overcome all of life challenges, from illness to a blow from the fist of a rival. Indeed, youth and immortality are but two sides of the same coin.In my view, this is one of the reasons why the onset of old age rings an ominous bell. The rolling on of the years is a reminder that man is a sojourner who yearns to be remembered long after he has come and gone. It is a marker that soon our job will be done and we must prepare to hand over the baton to the next generation.Ageing is a reminder that life is a terminal condition, and every year a milestone on the road of life which tells you that with every step you take, you are getting closer to your grave. This is why individuals desire to leave legacies.FUNERALS FASCINATING FOR MANWhat a person has done to make society better than he found it is the monument that stands after that person dies. Some of these stand in the streets for everyone to see. Many, however, remain in the hearts of those who were touched by the departed.And this is partly the reason why funerals hold such a fascination for man. It is here that society chooses how to remember those who make the transition to the afterlife. The solemn celebration is, in the final analysis, a ritual to create memory. It serves to nudge the living to re-evaluate themselves and re-examine their contribution to society.When the masses attend a funeral, it is not only that they are going to grieve for the dearly departed. The act of mourning is also an occasion for their social, cultural and political re-education.Usually, funerals are times of introspection. Mourners attend to listen to the eulogies because the only way to achieve immortality is through memory. Words, in effect, become the vessels through which one lives on even after one s days have ended. The greatest tragedy for an individual would be to die unremarked and unremembered.How one is remembered, therefore, is the only way to achieve eternal life. Unlike ordinary, private citizens, the deeds of those in public life are writ large for all to see. The struggles they fought, the ideas that advanced and the roles they played are the monuments to their life contribution. Some of these monuments are, of course, grander than others, but not all are always carved in gold.Society uses these sombre times to re-emphasise the values of the time. Indeed, mourning a public figure is an exercise in affirming these publicly-shared values. The public is united in grief.And the one message that sinks when people attend funerals such as these is this: We are remembering the departed because of what he stood for. If you want to be similarly remembered, go ye and do likewise .In short, it is an occasion for indoctrination. New values are born from the ashes of those of the preceding generation. There is no death, daughter, Isabella Allende wrote. People die only when we forget them. And this is why it is important for public figures to ask themselves: What will I be remembered for? Remember that when Alfred Nobel asked himself this question after newspapers erroneously reported that he had died, he decided to do something about how he would be remembered. Although he is the man who invented dynamite, today, the world knows him as the man after whom the most coveted prizes are named. To win a Nobel is to reach the acme of one s work be they in the sciences or the arts. It is a sign that you have left humanity better than you left it.Funerals, especially those of public and historical figures, are also moments when the collective memory is re-invented and re-packaged in preparation of a new future.They become pegs on which to tether a new collective narrative. Society uses them to foist its ideals on the departed and challenge the living to aspire to them. It is a complex mind game.They create an opportunity for the movers and shakers to orient the collective mind in the hope that this will lead the masses to imagine a new future. Ng ang a Mbugua is the author, most recently, of Angels of the Wild, which has been shortlisted for the Wahome Mutahi Literary Prize email print email print If Parliament endorses his nomination, he will be formally appointed by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Justice David Maraga portrayed himself during his interview as having an untainted past.