Building and construction of the Wadi Degla Sports Academy in Nairobi s Runda area is complete.President Uhuru Kenyatta will open the facility on Thursday. Constructors were yesterday putting final touches on the omni sport facility which has a tartan turf football pitch, four squash courts, three swimming pools, a tennis court, spa, business lounge, gym, children s playing area, lazy river for raft riding and two fine dining restaurants. Wadi Degla has set up three members-only sports centres in Runda, Migaa and Karen in Nairobi, with plans to expand to Kisumu, Mombasa and Nakuru in the next three years. Speaking on Saturday during a tour of the facility, Wadi Degla s regional sales manager, Jacob Ochieng said: This is not just going to be a sports facility, it is going to be a place for leisure and entertainment too. Our aim is to inculcate a sporting culture in our kids so that they can grow up appreciating sports and embracing it as their primary entertainment activity. We have spoken with a number of sports federations, including Athletics Kenya and Football Kenya Federation, and they have expressed willingness to bring the national teams here for training since we have very good equipment, he said. Wadi Degla Clubs is an Egyptian Company that develops private sports clubs worldwide. Wadi Degla has laid more emphasis on athletics in Kenya. It has a partnership with the Douglas Wakiihuri Academy which offers professional training to track and field athletes. The company has partnered with international sports academies including the Arsenal Soccer School, Swim America and Darwish Squash Academy to enable children train and develop their talent following the European models. Members will pay a life-time membership fee of Sh923,000, after which they and their next of kin will access Wadi Degla facilities anywhere in the world. Children below four years will be allowed to use the facilities for free, but a 10 percent premium on the membership fee will be required for children above five years. email print email print Mr Menjo says this device can even be concealed from the driver in a PSV. The official organisers of the concert are Walee Wasee Ltd who approached KTB for support.