Champions Gor Mahia face Ulinzi Stars Wednesday evening in what is expected to be a fired-up Kenyan Premier League clash at the Nyayo National Stadium.The two sides will be seeking to reignite their title push that got a much-needed boost at the weekend. With leaders Tusker drawing 1-1 with Ushuru and Gor rediscovering their form to floor Chemelil Sugar 3-1 on Saturday, the title race has been blown wide open.K Ogalo s camp is oozing confidence that they can take the battle for the title to the wire and pip table-toppers Tusker to claim their 16th crown. At 40 points, just five adrift of the brewers, Gor can trim the deficit to two points in the event that they overcome the gritty military men at Nyayo Wednesday evening.Gor s camp has been under pressure following a string of uninspiring performances both in the league and domestic Cup competitions but Saturday s 3-1 win over Chemelil restored confidence in the Green Army.Gor coach Marcelo Ferreira was particularly relieved after the win, the team s first in five league assignments, and now believes his charges are back on track. It s an important game and so we want to win it. We beat Chemelil Sugar because we were relaxed and calm and the boys need to face the match with the same attitude and avoid pressure. Focus will be key, Ferreira told Daily Nation Sport.Gor will welcome back Burundian international defender Karim Nizigiyimana voted the league s best last term - after serving his suspension against Chemelil. The clash makes for an intriguing duel as Ulinzi, who beat Sofapaka 3-1 to move to third place on 37 points, know too well that they are still in contention and the next seven fixtures will define their fate. The preparation for the match has been good and we are taking one game at a time. They (Gor) need the three points the same way we do, Ulinzi skipper James Saruni said. If everybody works their socks off like we did against Sofapaka then we ll have a chance. Ulinzi will still be without their ailing head coach Robert Matano with his assistant Benjamin Nyangweso expected to take charge for the fourth consecutive game. email print email print Kenya is lobbying against the planned agreement between US and 12 Asian states for fear of losingPeres will be buried next to Rabin, who was assassinated in 1995 by a Jewish extremist opposed to