I don t know about you, but there are some people who manage to alter my mood by simply being in their presence.Take the butcher I often buy meat from. He must be the grumpiest human being I have ever met. The man always wears this nasty scowl on his face that says keep off , never mind that he wakes up every morning hoping to do good business. I have never seen him smile or make small talk with anyone, even his repeat clients, who have bought meat from him for decades.The first time I bought from him, I greeted him with a jovial, Habari yako, in the mother tongue we share no less, which, going by experience, rarely fails to foster some sort of camaraderie. Wasn t it Nelson Mandela who said that if you talk to your fellow man in his language, what you say goes to his heart?Well, this man must have a heart of stone because he just stared at me with a sneer, as if I had offended him. Instead of the normal automatic, I am fine , he gave me a humourless, impatient look that said, Get on with it woman, I don t have all day I must confess that his rudeness embarrassed me, especially since there were a couple of people behind me waiting to be served, and who had witnessed the entire exchange. Chastised, I gave him my order, which he efficiently processed and once he was done weighing and wrapping, he roughly shoved the package at me, still wearing a nasty look on his face, refusing to make eye contact a cue for the next person in line to get on with it.LEGENDARY HOSTILITYThat was about four years ago, and I would later learn that this butcher s hostility is legendary he is hostile to everyone, whether you re a new or old customer - there s no discrimination.After that incident, I vowed never to return to this butchery, but after a couple of bad experiences in other butcheries around the area, I made my way back there, though with legs full of lead.In one of the butcheries, I was sold tough, rubber-like meat, in another, I got more bones than meat, and ended up boiling soup instead of making the beef stew I had envisioned - you know how crafty butchers hold the biggest bone, covering it entirely while showing you the meaty area? Well, that was what happened to me. In yet another, I was sold smelly meat. Unfortunately, this sullen butcher has the best meat in town, and so people like me keep trooping back to his butchery. It irritates me to no end, but what to do?Anyway, after that nasty first time experience, I was of course wiser. Nowadays, I simply bark out my order, no greeting, no small talk. It is only recently though that I realised that as I approach this butchery, my mood alters and becomes a little bit dark, and a scowl begins to form on my face, as if in readiness for the scowl that awaits me ahead. Should our eyes happen to meet, which is rare since Mr Grumpy is averse to making eye contact, what he sees is a woman with a sneer, though an involuntary one, not that it seems to bother him one bit, if I might add.I have come across a couple of negative people in my lifetime, people who have this ability to suck the happiness, cheerfulness and optimism you had bubbling within you with the first sentence that comes out of their mouth. You know them; they are the ones that are likely to say in manner of greeting, My God, what happened to you?! Or, You still work there?! as if actually having a job is a crime, Or, It seems life is not treating you badly you have put on weight. Of course, I need not tell you that there s a lot of insincerity attached to this one. How can I forget the ones who keep mourning about their perceived problems and how nothing good ever happens to them, and how broke they are, as if the rest of us have a pit-like vault full of money like Scrooge McDuck?This Sunday, promise yourself to avoid these ones from now onwards life is too precious to allow other people s bad attitudes depress you. [email&#160;protected]; Twitter: @cnjerius. The writer is the Daily Nation Features Editor email print email print Once in a while, when I am bored, or when I feel like getting shocked, I log onto the Daily Mail, a British publication, if you haven t come across it yet. Besides their juicy gossip on celebrities, I also find their news section entertaining. If Parliament endorses his nomination, he will be formally appointed by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Justice David Maraga portrayed himself during his interview as having an untainted past.