Most women of colour often have areas of skin that are uneven in tone. The areas include the elbows, knees, thighs and cheeks. It is not advisable to use bleaching creams because of the chemicals found in these products. There are, however, natural remedies that serve to lighten and even out the skin tone safely. Some of these include:Lactic acid: This is found in milk and works gradually. Add some lemon juice to a cup of milk and apply it as a mask every night for 15 minutes on the affected area. This also works to remove a sun tan.Lemon juice: The acidic content of lemon has excellent bleaching properties. Use it daily on the darkened areas until you realise a change.Tomato slices: Rub slices of tomato on the face to tone dark patches. Do this daily for one month.Irish potato slices: This works well to clear dark under eye circles when used every day.Rice flour mask: Finely ground rice mixed with milk makes an effective skin lightening mask. Use this for 15 minutes three times per week.Toning your face with rice water also works quite well.Papain enzyme mask: Use the milky liquid from unripe paw paw as a mask. Apply for 30 minutes before rinsing off with cold water. The enzymatic action helps to dissolve dead skin and excess melanin.Glycerine and lemon juice: Use this combination as a lotion at night to gently bleach large areas of skin such as legs and thighs.Apple cider vinegar: This helps to even out post pimple scarring. You should test it on other areas of body before applying on your face.Honey and aloe vera: This gentle masks creates a brighter skin appearance when used once a week.Note: Hard areas of skin such as ankles and elbows will benefit from exfoliation treatment prior to the use of masks.Remember that natural remedies take longer than chemicals to work; therefore be patience and don t give up. Facebook Group: Skincare helpline Kenya email print email print Some people are easily intimidated by others, whether at work, business or even socially.The firearm, a G3 rifle, was stolen by the gangsters on a motorcycle after killing the officer inKenyan officials have repeatedly suggested during the past year that direct air links with the US