The need to cut down on building costs in the country cannot be overemphasised. Consequently, it is important to adopt technologies that minimise construction costs while allowing many people to afford decent houses.One of the technologies gaining currency is the use of interlocking bricks. Houses built using this technology are not only cheap, but use fewer materials and manpower. They are also easier to maintain than those made using quarry bricks, in addition to being environmentally friendly. Mr Charles Mwangi, a builder, says the cost of building a two-bedroom interlocked brick and a similar one made of conventional bricks is incomparable. The foundation of a quarried brick one alone comes to Sh200,000; the same amount can make a complete two-bedroom interlocked brick one, he says.He adds that builders, especially in rural areas, are warming up to the technology, with interlocked brick buildings standing out conspicuously wherever are built. Some of these bricks blend well and the environment is not denuded as quarrying is not necessary since all that is needed is good soil for making the bricks, he says.With a pressing machine, a few bags of cement and good, moist soil, a builder can make hundreds of bricks in a single day. For instance, two bags of cement and 10 wheelbarrows of soil can make up to a 100 bricks.MADE IN PAIRSFor greater structural strength, the walls are made in pairs. However, if the soil in the area retains water, the foundation can be laid using conventional bricks to prevent damage in future.Mr Mwangi says that great expertise is needed in laying the bricks as mistakes can be hard to correct. Some mistakes can prove costly if not detected in good time, leading to structural weakening in places, he says.The walls are strengthened by plastering, especially on the inside. Also, it is advisable to add pesticides while making the bricks as a preventive measure. Michael King ori, another builder, says efforts should be made to ensure uniformity. These bricks are not painted so the soil f should be sourced from same place, he says.He says the bricks use a large proportion of local materials since the soil is likely to be sourced from the area where the house is being built. The use of less cement and sand also makes them a cheaper alternative.But if you are making the bricks yourself, ensure that you have good quality soil for better compaction and durability of the bricks since exposure to the elements can damage and discolour them with time, he cautions.You can paint them to preserve them or have a a sloping roof to minimise damage. If you cannot make durable bricks yourself, it is better to buy professionally made ones, he concludes. email print email print Kenya is lobbying against the planned agreement between US and 12 Asian states for fear of losingPeres will be buried next to Rabin, who was assassinated in 1995 by a Jewish extremist opposed to