We see them everywhere, 20-somethings high on something, heading nowhere great. Very fast. And we think, They will be alright. There s still time.They have 10 years to goof around and get it out of their system. However, according to Dr Meg Jay, clinical psychologist and author of The Defining Decade: Why Your 20s Matter And How To Make The Most Of Them Now, we couldn t be more wrong.In her February 2013 Ted Talk, she said, These are the facts. We know that 80 per cent of life s most defining moments take place by age 35.That means that eight out of 10 of the decisions and experiences and Aha! moments that make your life what it is will have happened by your mid-30s We know that the first 10 years of a career has an exponential impact on how much money you re going to earn. We know that more than half of Americans are married or are living with or dating their future partner by 30.We know that the brain caps off its second and last growth spurt in your 20s as it rewires itself for adulthood, which means that whatever it is you want to change about yourself, now is the time to change it.We know that personality changes more during your 20s than at any other time in life, and we know that female fertility peaks at age 28, and things get tricky after age 35. So your 20s are the time to educate yourself about your body and your options. YOU CAN'T POSTPONE LIFEIf you are in your 20s, don t buy into the lie that you can postpone life, that you still have time to find the right career, job, partner or save for retirement. Dr Jay argues that if you are continually dating whoever happens to be around even if they are bad for you, the likelihood is you will marry one of them. Or miss the one who is best suited for you.She insists that this is the time to pursue your dream job and stop wasting time waiting tables. If she is right, and I believe she is, not just because of the years she spent researching and counselling 20 somethings.Also because I have lived long enough to see goofy 20 somethings become goofy 40 somethings with little to show for all the effort, time, money and education invested in them. Fortunately, some wake up and manage to pull themselves off the rollercoaster. So here s my common sense advice to the 20 somethings reading this:Your 20s are the best time to work on yourself. By now, you have gathered some baggage from your imperfect parents, that psychopathic teacher in high school, and your first heart-break. Pain is a great teacher. Use it. Learn the lesson.MAKE YOURSELF BETTER, NOT BITTERMake yourself better, not bitter. Read self help book, attending personal development seminars, go to counselling. Watch Dr Phil. Resolve NOT to be that person in your 40s still complaining about how your dead beat dad ruined your life.Secondly, sleep less. Now is the time to tick off many of the things on your bucket list that don t require a lot of cash. Like travel cheap, from Nairobi to Johannesburg by road.Dance until you drop. Attend a kesha or all night prayer service. Your body can handle it. Work hard, and put in long hours.Find a side hustle that doesn t compete with your day job but puts extra cash in your pocket. You may not have that much money but you have time. Learn time management skills. And remember, sleep less, after-all, you have plenty of time to sleep when you are dead.Third, save your pennies. In your 20s, they usually are just pennies. However, our parents taught us, haba na haba hujaza kibaba or very loosely translated into English as, a penny saved is a penny earned . Since you don t have much, join groups that help you pool resources, from saccos, saving schemes, chama and investment groups.You are certainly not thinking about retirement, but that doesn t mean you shouldn t be planning for it.Finally, build a great community around you. Life is about relationships. You didn t choose your birth family but now you can choose your friends and spouse.Get rid of toxic friends, stop being one and go meet some great people. If you are the average of the 5 people you spend most time with, your future depends on it. email print email print The quality of life is really a reflection of the quality of our relationships. The Budalang&#039;i MP will rebrand the Labour Party of Kenya, touted as the Third Force. The panel found that the judge had allocated himself a file without the duty judge&#039;s knowledge.