Champions Kenya launch their quest for their fifth Cup title against Nigeria as the Africa Cup Sevens championship gets under way at Safaricom Stadium, Kasarani.The Pool A opener kicks off at 12.06pm before, the Kenyans seek the scalp of Senegal from 7.15pm. Last year s losing finalists and two times champions Zimbabwe face Uganda at 11.44am before Mauritius at 6.54pm in their Pool B clash. Morocco, the 2012 losing finalists, meet Madagascar at 11.22am before taking on Zambia at 6.32pm in Pool C while Tunisia play the 2004 losing finalists Namibia and Botswana at 11.00am and 6.10pm respectively in Pool D.Kenya have reached the final six times in the last seven Africa Cup editions, winning in 2004, 2008, 2013 and 2015. Zimbabwe won in 2000 and 2012 beating Kenya and Morocco respectively. The only time Kenya failed to reach the final was in 2012 where Zimbabwe beat Morocco in the final 33-10. Last year, Kenya edged out Zimbabwe 21-19 to reclaim the title they had lost to South Africa s Development side in 2014.INDIVIDUAL TALENTThe result also saw the Kenyans qualify for the recently concluded 2016 Rio Olympic Games where they were joined by South Africa, who went on to win bronze after beating Japan 45-14 in the play-off.Kenya Sevens coach Paul Murunga said even though he was handling a totally new side that had little experience, he would allow his charges to express their individual talent and skills to the fullest. The goodness is that they have earned their place in the team, having featured prominently for their sides during the National Sevens Series, said Murunga. What will basically carry the day for us is the high skill level as compared to their rivals. Murunga said he was looking forward to seeing the players support each other as a team. Despite having had two training sessions, their game understanding is incredible since they know when to attack and defend besides their positioning at set pieces, said Murunga at their last training on Thursday at the RFUEA ground.Homeboyz utility back Michael Wanjala, who is the Kenya team captain rallied his teammates ahead of the continental battle. I know we have had few training sessions but we are going out there just to enjoy. We are in good shape, having had enough airtime at the National Sevens Series, said Wanjala. I know there will be challenges but we shall take our opponents seriously. EXPERIENCEWanjala and Alex Olaba from Strathmore Leos are the only players with World Rugby Sevens experience in the Africa Cup team. The team has the enterprising Aluda Beda, who spurred Kabras Sugar to Christie Sevens victory, their first win in the National Series and Lameck Dunde of the Impala Saracens.Nigeria have made six changes from the side that participated in the Africa Cup/Olympics qualifiers in South Africa last year with the inclusion of three foreign-based players.ThankGod Okafor of Sharks Rugby Club, South Africa, will be looking to make his debut while Temitope Okenla of Gravesend RFC, United Kingdom, is returning to the team for the first time since 2013.The team is skippered by Azeez Ladipo. Nigeria Sevens technical director Olatunji Fasimoye expressed confidence that his charges would not disappoint. We planned to bring in more foreign based players but we could not due to the harsh economy we are witnessing at the moment, Nevertheless, I think we have an extremely talented group of players with the mix of experience and youth. We are looking forward to seeing what the team can produce in Nairobi, said Fasimoye.FRIDAY'S FIXTURESTunisia v Nigeria 11.00am, Morocco v Madagascar 11.22am, Zimbabwe v Uganda 11.44am, Kenya v Nigeria 12.06pm, Botswana v Namibia 2.30pm, Zambia v Madagascar 2.52pm, Mauritius v Uganda 3.14pm, Senegal v Nigeria 3.36pm, Tunisia v Botswana 6.10pm, Morocco v Zambia 6.32pm, Zimbabwe v Mauritius 6.54pm, Kenya v Senegal 7.14pm. email print email print Legendary former New Zealand Sevens coach Gordon Tietjens has confirmed he has held talks with Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) officials in the past one week. Duale at the same time told the CJ nominee that he must respect the three arms of government. Monitors have blamed government forces for attacks on the protection sites.