Kenya s team of Bo Ciera, Sujan Shah and Neer Chandaria was placed in 61st position out of 71 countries after round two of the 2016 World Amateur Golf Championship for the Eisenhower Trophy in Riviera Maya Mexico on Thursday.Played at the par 72 Liberosta Playa Paraiso Golf Club and the par 71 Mayakoba El Camaleon Golf Club courses, Sujan carded 80 and 75 while Chandaria posted 81 and 80 with team captain Ciera firing 78 and 83, for a total of 27 over par.Usually, the best or two lowest scores out of the team of three players count towards the aggregate. Five African countries South Africa, Zimbabwe, Egypt, Kenya and Mauritius are among the 71 countries participating in the 30th edition of the International Golf Federation-organised championship. Australia was meanwhile leading with 19 under par ahead of USA on 11 under par. Two of the Australian players Davis Cameroon and Endycott Harrison were in first and second places on 10 and nine under par for the individual trophy.The men s championship which ends today, follows last weekend s Women Championship for the Espirito Santo Trophy won by the Republic of Korea on 29 under par 547 gross followed by Switzerland on eight under par 568.A total of 55 countries participated in the ladies edition which was marking its 27th year. Back at home, all roads this morning will be heading to Ruiru Sports Club this morning for the Safari Park Hotel and Casino, one of the biggest event the club has staged this season. Coming after a one month break, the event has attracted over 200 players who will battle it out for a number of impressive prizes in addition to all sorts of entertainment. Club captain Martin Karanja said on Friday that Ruiru members were all set to welcome Safari Park who have promised a memorable weekend for those who will manage to travel to Ruiru. We have had two monthly mugs over the past one month but from henceforth a number of big events are lined up at Ruiru starting with today s event, said Karanja. He said Safari Park Hotel was all set to offer a five-star treatment to golfers all day round. As usual, Hole No.7 will once again be the major attraction with the Mid-course Barbeque, said Karanja. He said the course has in the recent past been playing easy save for the notorious holes 10 and 16 which will be a real challenge to the players. Players who are expected to play well include Harun Gicho, Jospeh Mugo and Wilfred Mwaura in the men category, while going for the ladies title will include Caroline Mwikali, Margaret Kamau and Jane Kanari are in good form at the moment. email print email print The firearm, a G3 rifle, was stolen by the gangsters on a motorcycle after killing the officer inKenyan officials have repeatedly suggested during the past year that direct air links with the US