It is 400 years since the Bard came into this world. This Spear-Shaker eventually shook the world to its foundations, with the power of his word and his feather-pen. His rumble was so powerful that its reverberations are still felt, even within the African jungle a rumble in the jungle?Anyway, Shakespeare in the Jungle was the title of a doctoral research project submitted to some American university by my namesake and former student, Austin Ejiet. The project did not come to fruition. Ejiet returned to Makerere before completion of the programme and he passed away a few years later, a sad victim of one of those horrendous cancers that we all live in constant dread of.I just imagined that Ejiet probably wanted to highlight the significance of reading Shakespeare as an African. Is there a nice ambiguity here? Let us clarify. We mean we, as Africans, reading Shakespeare, not an African Shakespeare, surely, although the latter is not unimaginable.You might, for example, have heard of the Sheikh Zubair hypothesis. It posits that the great dramas and poems were penned by an Arab with this name, which was later corrupted into Shakespeare by ignorant commentators.One of the arguments of the Zubairists is that no primitive Englishman, who had never left the shores of his beloved island, could have acquired the encyclopaedic knowledge of the world exhibited in the famous works. Only a seasoned and sophisticated Arab globe-trotter was capable of that. Of the making of new theories there is no end!My own take on this is that those who want to deny Shakespeare authorship of his works overlook a very important point: the power of voracious reading. Any reasonably intelligent human being who can read, dares to read and cares to read can and will transform even the most abysmal mediocrity into genius. This, I think, is what the lad from Stratford-upon-Avon probably did the moment he landed in 16th Century London.UNDERSTOOD THE VALUE OF READINGIndeed, Shakespeare understood the value of reading so well that he has given us what, I think is the best definition of a professor: a fool without his books .Anyway, Shakespeare s significance to me as an African is much more than theoretical curiosity. It stems from a pattern of experiences I had in York, England, in 1966. I have mentioned the summer term I spent there studying Shakespeare under such great scholars as Dr F.R. Leavis and Professor Philip Brockbank, who later became Director of the Shakespeare Centre at Stratford-upon-Avon, Shakespeare s birthplace.Leavis, a leading light of the scrutiny brand of the Practical Criticism movement, is best-known in East Africa for his book The Great Tradition, about the English novel, where he claims that Charles Dickens was a great entertainer but not a great novelist. Our UoN colleagues often picked on the phrase the great tradition to poke good-natured fun at the Makerere English Department for its perceived conservative excesses.One evening when I was studying under Leavis and Brockbank, I walked into the cafeteria of my hostel, Derwent College, and immediately, a gang of English students burst into the African-American liberation anthem We Shall Overcome .Those were the days of Martin Luther King, you see, and the height of the Black Civil Rights movement in the US. The rude students had parodied We Shall Overcome in order to mock me, because I was black.After I attended Leavis lectures on Shakespeare s Othello (sounds close to Okello), I had to make a tutorial presentation before a young lecturer. There were just two of us students in the group, my colleague an English girl called Miss Manchester.ROUTINE THINGSI said all the routine things about the jealousy story of the famous general who marries a girl, Desdemona, against her father s wishes and later strangles her to death after being deceived into believing that she is cheating on him. At the end of my presentation, the lecturer asked me, Don t you think it matters that Othello is black? I blushed, mercifully imperceptibly, in my black skin (as reflected in my poem Whititude , written just around this time). Of course it mattered that Othello was black, I admitted, and quoted Othello s iconic lines: Haply for I am black or for I am declined into the vale of years . Why, then, had I not mentioned it in my presentation?It is only much later that I realised that my exposure to the insidious racism around me in the English environment was making me neurotic about my blackness. Still later, when I delved into theories of reading, I discovered that it would be impossible for an African, especially in Europe, to read Othello as just a play about blind jealousy.Othello is a raging neurotic, whose whole existence is a bomb waiting to explode because of the persistent racism to which he is exposed, even by the best-meaning members of the society in which he lives. They are always referring to him as the Moor or, most generously, the noble Moor , but always the Moor .Thus, the root cause of his tragedy is not his jealousy or the manipulations of the diabolically malicious Iago. Rather, it is the endemic poison of the society that persistently puts his moorishness (dark-skinned appearance) before his humanity.This may also be seen in plays like his Merchant of Venice. Read from an awareness of the anti-Semitism that culminated in the Holocaust, in which the Nazi supremacists murdered over six million Jews in Europe in the 1930s and early 1940s, the play stops being an exposure of commercial greed and the Shylocks of this world.Shylock s vengeful bitterness can be seen as the overflow of the venom on which he has been constantly fed by the arrogant, racist Christians . Any victim of irrational discrimination, whether on grounds of religion, race, gender, class or ethnicity, can identify with Shylock.Shakespeare is to be credited with his ability to give us the perspectives from which we can relate his stories to our own lived experiences.Have you ever imagined a stage production where Othello would be the only white character in a cast of blacks? Prof Bukenya is one of the leading scholars of English and Literature in East Africa. [email&#160;protected] email print email print The most preferred private university is Strathmore. There are more than 500,000 students pursuing education in these institutions.