Q. I was in charge of Finance in a certain organisation when my boss-the managing director unprocedurally increased the salary of a colleague he was having an affair with. I raised the issue with him and that started a trend of events where he openly victimised me. He summoned me to a disciplinary panel following an incident where I was set up by my junior staff. The panel was unfairly constituted since the MD and the lady in question were panelists. The other panel member was the Internal Audit Manager who remained silent throughout the hearing. I had requested the MD to refer the issue to the Finance Oversight body but he declined and chaired the session himself. I received a summarily dismissal letter and minutes of the session one day after the hearing. The documents had his sole signature. I had served the organisation for 12 years without any warning letter with good reviews. As it was a summarily dismissal, I am not entitled to any benefits. The MD has also sent out damaging information, making it difficult for me to even try and get a job. The scenario where you confronted your boss for reviewing the salary of an employee unprocedurally is unacceptable as this can be misconstrued to be defiance. The best way would have been to report this incident to the chairman of the Finance Oversight committee with all the facts highlighted.You allege that you were set up by your juniors. This is possible, but in future, ensure that you seal all loopholes to avoid a repeat of the same. The composition of the disciplinary panel is not guided by any employment laws, unless the organisation has a policy outlining the same. You deserve an opportunity to be accompanied by a witness, and to be allowed to read the minutes and sign them voluntarily as true record of the hearing. If this procedure was not followed, then you have grounds to appeal the decision taken by the MD through the Finance Oversight body. The Employment Act states that all employees irrespective of how they left their employers must get a certificate of service stating the position they held and the duration of service. This is different from a recommendation letter.Update your CV, send to recruitment agencies. However, in the event that you are called for an interview, be careful not to talk negatively about your former boss as this might be used to judge you unfairly. email print email print Kenya is lobbying against the planned agreement between US and 12 Asian states for fear of losingPeres will be buried next to Rabin, who was assassinated in 1995 by a Jewish extremist opposed to