Homeboyz braved a thrilling second half rally from Strathmore Leos to triumph 22-18 and lift the Impala Floodlit Plate title at the Impala Sports Club grounds on Saturday.Menengai Oilers claimed a historical victory when they trounced Kenyatta University s Blak Blad II 24-16 to win the universities crown while Laiser Hill beat Ofafa 21-15 to retain the schools title for the third consecutive time.It was Menengai Oilers first major victory since the club was formed months ago. Three tries from second rows Emmanuel Mavala and Andrew Chogo, and right wing Collins Shikoli were what the deejays needed to tame the Leos.But it was not before fly-half Kelvin Masai made two conversions while right wing Humphrey Otieno one conversion. Left wing Ginton Adongo touched down a brace of tries while fly-half Peter Muiruri made one conversion and two penalties but all was in vain for the Leos who failed to cash in on their numbers in the last minutes to beat Homeboyz. Homeboyz had three of their players - Leon Lubang a, Mavala and Steve Otieno - sin-binned for infringement in the ruck. This is our best showing in the Floodlit tournament since we have always exited in the first round, said Homeboyz coach Pual Murunga. Indiscipline almost cost us victory with the three yellow cards but we shall address that going forward. REDUCED DEFICITMurunga is looking forward for a great Kenya Cup season starting November 5 where they will face the same opponents in their opener. That is when we shall have all our arsenal intact with the return of Kenya Sevens players, said Murunga.Strathmore Leos coach Mitch Ocholla praised his charges from a great show despite having lost 15 players to their rivals. We had lost players before but this season s was the biggest number, said Ocholla. We must fortify our fortress before the Kenya Cup. I m happy the players conditioning is good. Masai put Homeboyz ahead with a penalty that the Leos roared back to cancel it with a try from Adongo. Then the DJs would ring some new tunes in their fowardline of attack to score through Mavala and Chogo. Owuor converted to take the lead 15-5 before Muiruri slotted over a penalty to reduce the deficit at 8-15 for Leos at the break.Homeboyz were all blazing as Shikoli completed some thrilling open play with a try that Masai converted to stretch the lead to 22-8. The Leos would roar back with their forwards tearing Homeboyz defence apart. They got a penalty that Muiruri curled over before Adongo went for his second try.Muiruri converted as the Leos inched closer 22-18.The Leos launched a series of attacks that had Homeboyz on the edge when Mavala joined Lubang a in the sin-bin. Otieno also came to the sin-bin just after Lubang a went back to the field but Homeboyz s solid defence kept the Leos at bay.Menengai Oilers led 17-8 at the break with tries Eric Ombasa, Hughes Anjera and Vincent Oduor. Victor Matika made one conversion. email print email print President Kenyatta stressed the importance of good relations between the various branches of The Kenyan-born Obama has been a darling of right-wing conservative media in the US.