Rose entered the consultation room and announced that she had come to learn how to satisfy her husband sexually, even before she sat down. It is usual for clients who visit the sexology clinic to be uneasy and anxious given the nature of the subject, and make undefined requests in a hurry. I took it that Rose was just trying to find her bearing in the clinic and would substantiate her requests further once settled. As she sat down, her eyes roaming all over the room, the tension around her was palpable. I am afraid that another woman might steal my husband so teach me how to satisfy him, she repeated.I asked her about her social and sexual life. She was 35; her husband was 40. She had been married for only three months. Incidentally Tom, her husband, had been married seven years with three children when they met, and he walked out of that union to be with Rose. When they first met at her current place of work she decided that this was the man she would marry and set out to do it through hook or crook.DIVORCED WIFE It was not easy for me, she explained. It took a lot of scheming to get him. Tom finally gave in and divorced his wife. Only after the wedding did it hit Rose that the next big step would be to keep him in the marriage. She was determined to do it though, and figured sex was an important aspect of this.I felt it was important for Rose to understand her situation before discussing sex. Many men and women pursue mates already in stable and sometimes long-term relationships in an effort to win them from their spouses. This act has been called mate poaching. In some countries it is estimated that 60 per cent of men and 50 per cent of women are married to spouses they poached from others.Over half of married men and women report that at one point or another, they have been approached by single people who are aware that they are married, and asked for affairs. Most of the time the request is for short-term relationships but occasionally, it is for marriage. Mate poachers never feel sorry for destroying the lives of others, instead they feel triumphant. They feel that they have conquered the partner of their dreams.However, mate poaching is a risky business. When the game goes wrong and the spouse of the person being poached fights back, violence can be meted on the intruder. Society also sees the intruder as a social misfit. Many religions also condemn the practice. As a poacher, you should be aware of these risks and evaluate your reasons for choosing to be with someone else s spouse. This will help you decide whether you want to proceed. FALSELY CONVINCEDScience tells us that the mind of the poacher is falsely convinced that there are no single people available who are as good as married ones. They are afraid that unless they poach, they will miss out on a relationship. They believe that the social capital that comes with being married far outweighs the risk of poaching.Not every married person falls prey to poachers. Those who are won over were never committed to their marriages in the first place. They are vulnerable to extramarital sex and lacking in love and caring for their spouses. They come into the marriage with one leg already out.Sadly, they will also walk into their new relationship with one leg out, too. It is a matter of time before another poacher takes them over. This is irrespective of what you do to keep them happy and satisfied. What? Are you insinuating that Tom is going to get married to another woman in future? I am very disappointed with you! Rose shook her head furiously, stood up, looked me straight in the eye, threw her arms in the air and walked out of the room. I had unintentionally offended her, but I hoped I had given her some food for thought. email print email print A light aircraft belonging to SPC Aviation College has crashed at Nairobi National Park.The Kenyatta National Hospital has recorded about 100 deliveries daily, nearly three times more