Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg landed in Nairobi on Thursday in what he says is a visit to meet with entrepreneurs and developers.Through a post on his Facebook page, Mr Zuckerberg said he wants to "learn more about mobile money, where Kenya is the world leader."The social media billionaire's first stop was at the iHub, Nairobi's technology innovation hub, an open-space centre for technologists, investors, tech companies and hackers."I'm starting at a place called iHub, where entrepreneurs can build and prototype their ideas. Two of the engineers I met, Fausto and Mark, designed a system to help people use mobile payments to buy small amounts of cooking gas, which is a lot safer and better for the environment than charcoal or kerosene. "It's inspiring to see how engineers here are using mobile money to build businesses and help their community," read Mr Zuckerberg's post.NO FANFAREMr Zuckerberg slipped into Kenya much the same way he did in Nigeria, where he landed without much fanfare or media publicity. In Nairobi, the social media mogul, who is planning to launch an ambitious programme to beam free Internet from the sky to unconnected areas in Kenya, was pictured eating lunch with the Kenya's Information, Communication and Technology Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru where he says they discussed his plan. The billionaire was pictured at a local eatery called Mama Oliech Restaurant in Hurlingham, Nairobi, enjoying a local delicacy of ugali and saut ed tilapia with government officials."One of my [favourite] parts of traveling to a new country is trying the food. I enjoyed ugali and a whole fried tilapia for the first time and loved them both!" wrote Mr Zuckerberg on Facebook.(Read: The pitfalls in Kenya s high internet penetration)FREE INTERNETLast year in October, Facebook began taking steps to beam free high-speed Internet to remote parts of Kenya in a move likely to scare local telecommunications firms.Facebook and French-based satellite provider Eutelsat plan to accelerate data connectivity in sub-Saharan Africa, with a focus on Kenya and Nigeria. I am excited to announce our first project to deliver [the] Internet from space as part of our internet.org programme to connect the world, Mr Zuckerberg said last year. The satellite programme will rely on Facebook s internet.org platform, which has sparked controversy for failing to reach its target audience worldwide.The application allows users to access the web for free for a limited time, but some websites will be blocked. email print email print Mark Zuckerberg urged India to approve a controversial plan that would provide a free Internet service to the poor Ms Tutui said the court would have given orders for immediate realisation of the rule. But the passport was not stamped, meaning he did not pass through the immigration desk.