Revenge will be on the cards when this year s Impala Floodlit rugby tournament starts with quarter-final matches at Impala Sports Club on Saturday.Homeboyz meet champions Kenya Commercial Bank while Strathmore Leos face Impala.The bankers edged out the Deejays 22-18 while Impala tore apart the Leos 32-5 at last year s semi-final of the same competition. With Kenya Cup league beckoning in a month s time, most clubs will be testing their new signings besides trying out different formations.The bankers will welcome the return of flanker Davis Chenge, winger Jacob Ojee and centre back Allan Omuka who didn t feature last season mainly because of injuries. KCB coach Curtis Olago has also signed three forwards for the new season, flankers Felix Ojoo and Martin Owillah from Homeboyz and Nakuru respectively and Mwamba s lock Nick Ongeri. The playing load is too much with back-to-back events that leave little space to rest but we have had a good pre-season preparation said Olago. I will field players who are fit and give a break to most of the players who took part in the just ended sevens series. Olago reckoned that Homeboyz will once again be a hard nut to crack, having reinforced their squad for the new season.TRADITIONAL FORMAT Homeboyz is a good side and we respect them but we shall see where we stand on the day. I plan to use as many players as possible, said Olago.KCB also beat Homeboyz 25-8 in their Kenya Cup pre-semifinals clash last season. The two teams had shared the spoils in the regular Kenya Cup season, Homeboyz winning the first leg 27-22 and the bankers 25-14 in the reverse fixture.Homeboyz, fresh from winning their first major title, the National Sevens Series, will hope to replicate their form in shortened version of the game at the traditional format of the sport.The 2014 Enterprise Cup losing finalists have raided Strathmore Leos to snatch sevens players, who prominently featured in their National Sevens Series successful campaign. They are Tony Owuor, Omondi (props), Jacob Owaa (lock), Tony Onyango, Cyprian Kuto (centre/wing), Charles Humphrey Owuor (fly half/centre)and Michael Wanjala (utility back).Despite losing 15 players to other clubs, Strathmore Leos coach Mitch Ocholla is confident of victory. It s a big blow but it shows we can produce good talent, he said.Strathmore will be captained by Michael Gitau.Impala Saracens too have netted tight-head prop Anthony Orege and utility back-row James Kubasu from Strathmore for the new season. Impala head coach Fred Ollows has elevated lock Edwin Gatungo from their academy to the senior side where he joins the likes of fullback Sammy Oliech and winger Ian Minjire, who will be making a comeback for Impala. We have looked for our best squad possible and we hope to scale over the Leos once again, said Ollows. Kenya Harlequin will also unleash their three signings from Strathmore prop John Okwara, lock Jared Owinyo and centre Erick Kioko on Mwamba, who also captured Billy Odhiambo from Strathmore. CLUBS Blak Blad v Nakuru-2:00pm Mwamba v Kenya Harlequins-3:40pm Impala Saracens v Strathmore-5:20pm K.C.B v Homeboys-7:00pmUNIVERSITIES 1. Menengai Oilers v Strathmore II (Impala) 9:30am 2. Mean Machine v Blak Blad II (RFUEA) 9:30am 3. CUEA v TUK (RFUEA) 11:05am4. USIU vs Daystar(Impala) 11:05amSCHOOLS1. Mangu v Lenana (RFUEA). 12:40pm2. Dagoretti vs Menengai High (Impala) 12:40pm 3. Ofafa Jericho vs Alliance (RFUEA) 2:00pm 4. Laiser Hill vs MFA. (RFUEA). 3:15pm email print email print The officers&#039; guns have been seized and will be subjected to ballistic tests. The commission received 68 applications when the deadline expired on September 28.