Kenya Rugby Union are in talks with legendary former New Zealand Sevens tactician Gordon Tietjens to take over Kenya Sevens as head coach.The 60-year-old veteran tactician, who stepped down as All Blacks coach after the 2016 Rio Olympic Games having won the World Rugby Sevens Series 12 times and the World Cup twice, is due in the country Saturday evening for more talks. The Union s chairman Richard Omwela disclosed on Tuesday that even though they have contacted Tietjens, they are yet to discuss with him on the possibility of taking over Kenya Sevens. We have had initial contacts with him (Tietjens) and he said he is available. We would be glad to have him, said Omwela. But remember he has said before that he doesn t want a full time job after retirement he only wants to do consultancy. Whether Tietjens will take over Kenya Sevens as head coach from Benjamin Ayimba whose contract ends on September 30, this year or as a consultant is left to be known.A source at the Union disclosed that Tietjens is more than willing to take over Kenya Seven but on short term basis. He quite understands the Kenyan flair and he knows the team has got the potential, said the source. Tietjens is a magician of sevens and he knows what he can do. He really doesn t have a hard task. If successful, Tietjens will be Kenya s third foreign coach in the last four years after Briton Mike Friday, who handled the team for the 2012 and 2013 season and South African Paul Treu, who was in charge in the 2013 and 2014 seasons.The source disclosed that if Tietjens deal fails to go through, former Fiji coach Ben Ryan could step in, having led his former side to Rio Olympic Games gold. Ryan, who handled England from 2007 to 2013, took over Fiji in 2013. Besides the Rio Olympic gold, Ryan has won with Fiji the World Rugby Series title in the last two seasons.Tietjens, who was inducted to the World Rugby Hall of Fame in May 2012, is revered as The greatest sevens coach" owing to his achievements in Sevens rugby where he handled All Blacks from 1994 to his retirement after the unsuccessful 2016 Olympics campaign.Beside the World Ruby Series and World Cup exploits, Tietjens has guided All Blacks to four Commonwealth Games victories. email print email print Legendary New Zealand sevens coach Gordon Tietjens announced his retirement Tuesday.The Interior Cabinet secretary said politicians who stormed the campus should either apologise or The Export-Import Bank would assist Bechtel in developing the project.