As expected, AFC Leopards on Thursday parted ways with coach Ivan Jacky Minnaert following a spate of poor results.Consequently, the club installed former Kenya international defender Ezekiel Akwana as caretaker coach for the reminder of the 2016 Kenyan Premier League season.Meanwhile, Minnaert who was handed his dismissal letter by the club's chairman Daniel Mule at 9am, confirmed to Daily Nation Sport that he will contest the decision."I have been informed that I am no longer in charge but I don't agree with the reasons. I will fight them," the Belgian trainer said.Minnaert, formerly in charge of Rwanda's Rayon Sport and Mali's Djouliba FC, was dismissed barely six months into his two year contract. His dismissal letter signed by Mule reads: "You are hereby relieved of your duties with immediate effect and are advised to hand over all the club's property in your possession to the team manager. You are advised to collect your terminal dues from the Secretariat on September 5." In arriving at his dismissal, Leopards management are understood to have triggered two clauses in Minnaert's contract which highlight a "showcause" in case of poor performance and as well offer the trainer the privilege of receiving an equivalent of his two month s salary as lieu of notice.Minnaert has been a dead man walking employment wise since Leopards shipped in seven goals in their last three competitive assignments against City Stars, Western Stima and Kakamega Homeboyz. Specifically, the 3-0 loss to Stima saw the team bundled out of the GOTV Shield and by the coach's admission, extinguish hopes of featuring in continental football next season.Although a charming character with a strong social media presence, Minnaert was also on the spot for consistently falling out with a number of senior players and even members of his technical bench. He is the second Leopards coach to be shown the door this season, after Jan Koops.The team appointed Minnaert as their new head coach on February 26, this year for two years.Minnaert took over from Dutchman Jan Koops who was handed a new role within the club s technical bench. Speaking during the unveiling ceremony in Nairobi, Minnaert described himself as a very emotional man. email print email print Kenyan Premier League giants AFC Leopards have appointed Belgian Ivan Jacky Minnaert as their new head coach for the next two years. The first batch of doctors will be promoted by October 7. The nine IEBC commissioners will know their individual payouts on Monday.