Runyenjes MP Cecily Mbarire has apologised for the public altercation she was involved in with Embu Senator Lenny Kivuti at Karurumo market a week ago.Ms Mbarire said she was misled by the devil and promised that such an incident will not happen again.She was responding to a warning by Embu Catholic Diocese Bishop Paul Kariuki that politicians who cause chaos or tribal divisions during campaigns would be barred from addressing church gatherings.When introducing politicians during the 30th Embu diocesan celebrations at St Paul s Makima Catholic Parish, Bishop Kariuki challenged Ms Mbarire to assure the faithful that she would promote peace.Those in attendance included John Cardinal Njue, Chairman Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops Philip Anyolo, and Nyahururu Bishop Joseph Mbatia."IT WAS THE DEVIL" I have heard what the bishop has said. Let me say that I was visited by the devil on Sunday. "When you meet the devil you must face him head on but I will not repeat that again, she said.Bishop Kariuki had condemned the Karurumo incident in which Ms Mbarire and Senator Kivuti came to a near fist fight.The bishop threatened to issue a decree, asking the faithful to shun any politician who stokes tribal sentiments or uses violence in campaigns.Ms Mbarire was angered by revelations that Mr Kivuti was about to launch his bid for the Embu governor s seat in her constituency.Bishop Kariuki suggested that those who are involved in the malpractices be barred from contesting any political seat for at least five years so as to ensure there was peace.SHUN TRIBALISM Those who will use tribalism will be told to wait (until they reform). "For those who use violence in next year s campaigns as witnessed last Sunday, I will write a letter saying we will just pray for them and deny them votes, said Bishop Kariuki.Another aspirant for the governor s seat, Kithinji Kiragu, supported the proposal and urged IEBC to bar candidates who use violence from contesting in the coming elections.He said it was wrong to use violence and tribalism in order to win votes and leave people maimed or divided. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission should strictly monitor how the campaigns are carried out. We also ask the bishop to pray for us all, even those who have maintained peace. Those involved in violence should wait for five years so that Embu can remain peaceful, said Mr Kiragu. email print email print Ms Mutua said that despite being a woman, the MP was justified in reacting the way she did. Junior advocates only seek publicity in such matters. The drugs will be available for free at all health facilities countrywide.