Francis Njeru, one of the leading golfers at Machakos, was in an excellent form at the weekend, beating a field of 110 players at the par-72 Machakos Golf Club course to claim top honours in the inaugural Konza Techno City tournament.The handicap seven player fired a total of 41 points to walk away with the overall title. Although I dropped a couple of shots, I am happy to have beaten everyone on the field. I played well. It feels great to be the winner of the first edition of Konza City tournament, said Njeru, who also claimed men s longest drive title.Jennifer Mangu clinched the ladies longest drive, while Peter Mutinga won the nearest to pin. Jane Kiiti carded 31 points to take home the ladies prize ahead of Mercy Nderitu (29), while S.K.Theuri and John Nguitui won the nines with 21 points each. The best score of the day (44 points) was posted by Chris Kimiti, followed by L. Kowiti (36) who beat Reuben Langat on countback. The gross title went to James Ndunda on five over par 77 gross. The going got tough for Dan Mutiso who managed 10 points to win the Best Effort prize. At Karen Country Club, Godwin Karuga, produced a fantastic round of golf, a five over par playing off handicap 10, to win the fifth leg of the Kenya Forest Service golf series. And it was a birdie three at the first hole which triggered Karuga s successful round, despite bogeying five holes on that front nine, though a birdie to finish with at the 18th was good enough for a brilliant 41 points made up of 21 and 20 to walk away with the overall prize. It was however a stiff competition for the men s first prize where Solomon Irimu beat Joseph Gachomba on countback with 38 points to take the first prize, as George Mburu on 37 points finished third. It was also a great day for Railway lady golfer Jedida Kubo who posted 40 points, missing the overall title by a point to settle for the ladies first prize where her closest challenger was Irene Auma with 39 points. The sponsor s prize went to Anastacia Muasya (30) while Charles Ngunjiri was second with 27 points.Winning the nines were K. Munge and P. Kiarie with 22 and 21 points. Speaking during the prize giving ceremony KFS Board Member Julius Kandie who was Chief Guest encouraged the members to nurture and inculcate the culture and practice of tree growing for the benefits that accrue to the country for the generations to come.WEEKEND RESULTSAt Vet Lab; Fred and Philipa Kerr Memorial Trophy; Overall Winner; James Mwangi 71 nett, Jackson Mwangi 72, Daniel Gitau 73.Lady winner Jane Mwangi 72 nett. At Muthaiga Golf Club: Advatech Golf Day; Winner Jacob Gathecha 37 points, Men Winner: Kunal Patel 35 cb Victor Maina. Lady winner Susan Kanyora 36, Mary Maingi 35. Junior Winner; Hashil Raghwani 40 points. Guest F. Wagura 36, At Thika Sports Club; Engineers Golf Day; Winner John Njoroge Githua 43 points. Men Winner-James Mwangi 37 points, cb David Matano , Mugo Kirika. Lady winner S.M. Patel 37 points. email print email print The most preferred private university is Strathmore. There are more than 500,000 students pursuing education in these institutions.