Once upon a time, everything in Kenya was weighed in things called lbs (sic), abbreviated from libra which is Latin for scales , and also called pounds because the word pondus is Latin for weight .So now you know. But don t need to. Because everything in Kenya is now weighed in things called kgs bigger, better and metrically simpler than the lump that weighed 16 ounces, or sometimes 12 or 15 ounces, depending on whether it was a pound avoirdupois, or of Troy, or tower, or merchant or London pedigree.Frightfully imperial stuff, but now (phew) a much more precise 0.45359237 kg.If lb (or lbs ) appears anywhere in Kenyan legislation today, it is either a mistake or an anachronism. And there s a charming example of that on our little-red-book driving licences.If endorsed for category E , the licence is valid for driving Motor Cars &amp; Commercial Vehicles not exceeding 4,000 lb. Tare weight. First, let s be very clear that the weight limit does not apply to the Motor Cars bit. If it did, there would have to be another category for cars that weighed (unladen) more than 1,814 kilos and 369.2 grammes. And there isn t one.So if the weight limit did apply to cars, no one would be licensed to drive many tens of thousands of big limos and 4WD estates on our roads today. Only small and mid-size cars and weeny SUVs have a tare, kerb or unladen weight of less than 4,000 lbs! Some vvvveerrry important people get chauffeured around in cars that weigh a whole lot more. Should we arrest their drivers?So if anyone (as topical rumour suggests) has been prosecuted for driving a car on the grounds of its tare weight, please let me know.I would be pleased to contribute to crowd-funding of your legal defence. And twice as much to crowd-sponsorship of a retraining course for ... well, you know who.No, the 4,000 lb limit applies to the commercial vehicles bit, and that doesn t make it a whole lot more practical. It s just enough for the average 1-tonne pick-up, but not for 4x4 double cabs, and not even for some single cabs if they have a rear canopy.SIMPLE REMEDYThe remedy for this anomaly could be very simple, and not even require a pocket calculator. Just change lb to kg on licensing laws and documents from now on, and make that retrospective.But there s a caveat. There should be no problem allowing a person who has been properly taught and tested for driving a car to drive a vehicle with an unladen weight of 4,000 kilos. But as so many licensed drivers have not had the benefit of good tuition or a test, the ink might have to be splashed a little wider.The best option might be to specify category E as valid for driving any motor car and/or commercial vehicle with a laden/gross weight (GVW) not exceeding 4,000 kilos.Surely, if weight is crucial to a vehicle s drivability, the limit should be applied to what it actually weighs when it is being driven. Potentially fully laden.And before the roadside emperors get another bright idea, a trailer is not part of a vehicle s GVW. Together, they have GTW (gross train) or GCW (gross combination) weights. A different law. [email&#160;protected] email print email print Motor makers now offer us more model variants than ever before, but their regional agents provide almost no local modifications.Kenya is lobbying against the planned agreement between US and 12 Asian states for fear of losingPeres will be buried next to Rabin, who was assassinated in 1995 by a Jewish extremist opposed to