Kenyan international Rhoda Nyambura bagged a hat-trick on Saturday as United States International University of Africa (USIU A) Spartans hammered Kenyatta University Titans 5-1 in a Kenya Hockey Union women's Premier League match at the City Park Stadium.The win saw Spartans move to the top of the women's table at least until Sunday when other matches are played. Liz Ogutu and Florence Karanja were also on target as Spartans claimed the bragging rights in the university derby.Edith Bunyasi pulled a goal back for Titans but they were unable to pose any real threats as Spartans cruised to a comfortable win. Spartans captain Beatrice Mbugua was full of praise for her teammates after the outstanding performance."I think we were fitter, more organised, smart and better prepared for this match. This result gives us confidence of winning our next assignments and finish in a decent position at the end of the season," Mbugua told Sunday Nation Sport.Spartans were on the offensive from the first minute with Mbugua, Nyambura and Sandra Vodoti threatening the Titans defence with their quick pace. Spartans created their first chance in the 15th minute when Nyambura s first time shot was saved by Titans keeper Seline Ouma.The striker was not to be denied four minutes later as she gave her team the lead with a brilliant field goal, firing home a shot on the edge of the Titans penalty circle. The goal spurred Spartans to launch more attacks with Mbugua pulling the strings in midfield.Nyambura doubled the lead in the 25th minute after finishing off a sweeping move that left the Titans defence exposed. Titans struggled to leave their own half as their opponents dictated play.However, two minutes to the break, Titans scored with their first chance of the match as Bunyasi capitalised on a defensive mix up among the Spartans player to put her team back in the match.Titans were unable to build on the momentum in the second half as Spartans returned back stronger creating more chances. Nyambura completed her hat-trick in the 52nd minute after scoring from a rebound after Ouma had saved Vodoti's initial shot. Six minutes later, it was four as Karanja hit the target after coming on for Vodoti.Ogutu added the fifth in the last minute to complete a remarkable performance for the Spartans."We are building a new team and the players will need time to gel and pull as a unit," Titans coach Domnic Mutwol said.In the men's national league, Parkroad Tigers edged out Impala 2-1 at the same venue. Kelvin Rono had given Impala the lead in the fifth minute but Mordecai Ogada levelled for the Tigers in the 11th minute. Ferdinand Onyango hit the winner in the 46th minute and despite pressure from Impala, Tigers held out for the three points. email print email print The MPs have urged the Ministry of Education to develop a policy. The group has also continued to carry out deadly attacks on targets across the border in Kenya.