The day after Bertha walks out of my life for good, I hope I now have to face the prospect of meeting up with Chris, the married man who nearly broke my heart for good until he left the company to go work in other country and also on his crumbling marriage. I wake up on Thursday morning full of trepidation, wondering what it will be like to see him again. Will my heart still flutter? Will I manage to compose myself? Will it be awkward? Friendly? Professional?I get ready for work in record time and drive to work in a bit of a daze, not believing what is happening; the instructions from Peter, our chairman, were pretty clear to re-orientate Chris into the company. Because I will likely be spending all day with him getting that done, it s going to be maximum exposure to him and I have to be ready.I walk into the office with my game face on and the first thing I do when I get to my desk is call Louise. Is he here yet? I ask her. Yes, she says. Liz, will you be all right? Of course! I say brightly. You know given everything-, I cut her off. That was then. This is now. I learnt my lessons, I sigh. Well if you need anything just let me know, she says. Meanwhile, he s been waiting for you to come in so you can start, she adds. I ll buzz him and let him know you re on your way. I put the phone down and breathe out heavily. Then I stand up and smooth my dress down. Picking up my notebook, I brace myself for whatever will come. It s showtime.I walk over to Chris office formerly Bertha s and knock softly on the door. Then I reach for the door knob. I notice how my hand shakes ever so slightly. I contemplate turning around and heading into the ladies room to compose myself, and then I remember that since I have already knocked, it would be bad form to chicken out now. So I reach for the knob and turn it, readying myself for whatever will come.I open the door to see Chris back to me; he s standing at the plate glass window, hands in his trouser pocket, surveying the world from office. Hi, I say.Chris doesn t turn around immediately. He stands there in silence for a few seconds. I note the broadness of his shoulders just as masculine as I remember them when I last saw him. His well-cut suit drapes just so. I can smell his woody cologne he hasn t changed that one thing since the last time he worked here and the memories come flooding back. I have to actively stop myself from remembering and come back to the present. I never thought I would ever come back here, he says, his back still towards me. And even if the thought did cross my mind, I didn t think it would feel so he pauses, as if looking for the right word, familiar in a good way. Welcome back, is all I can think to say in return.Then Chris turns around and our eyes meet. It s been two years, but looking at him, it feels like it was just yesterday. He s still as achingly handsome as he was when I last laid eyes on him hasn t aged a bit. My breath catches in my throat and I reach for the door knob to support myself.JUST LIKE YESTERDAY Come in, shut the door behind you, he says, still holding my gaze intensely. All I can think about is how to stop the butterflies from running around in my stomach. Liz? he prompts after a few long seconds of lack of activity from me. Oh, yes, of course, I say, closing the door and stepping forward into his office. How have you been? he asks as he walks towards me. I step back, literally into the door, scared of what might happen if we are within each other s physical space. Chris stops mid-step, noting my hesitation. I won t hurt you, he says. His words are loaded he could mean anything. He won t hurt me right now. He won t hurt me ever again. I don t know which one he means.Then he looks away, clearing his throat, and breaks the moment. Shall we start? Tell me what I need to know about what s been going on, he says. And just like that, it strikes me that the two years we spent apart may well have been two minutes because nothing absolutely nothing has changed about the dynamic between me and him. email print email print This is where all the drama started a few weeks ago, when Mariam and I burnt Philip s clothes. It s time to drink all the bad memories away!Peres will be buried next to Rabin, who was assassinated in 1995 by a Jewish extremist opposed to Ms Tutui said the court would have given orders for immediate realisation of the rule.