Harambee Stars players Michael Engineer Olunga and Anthony Teddy Akumu have said they are enjoying their football careers abroad.In a wide-ranging interview with Nation Sport magazine show, TopSport, Olunga, flanked by Akumu, said that the script was going according to plan for him in Stockholm, and is relishing the battle that comes with challenging for the Golden Boot. So far I ve scored eight goals in the league and I m not far off from the top scorer. Perhaps I need to get a hat-trick to close in on him, the 22-year-old, who turned professional at the beginning of this term, said. Vidar Oern Kjartansson of Malmoe FF tops the scoring charts on 14 goals. On the other hand, Akumu, who had a fairy-tale run with Zambia s Zesco United in the Caf Champions League, reaching the semi-finals, said that he s learnt valuable skills in the Zambian Super League. Every game has been a learning experience. The Kenyan league is a bit slower compared to Zambia s and again when it comes to management, its way better. Matters relating to money never come up, Akumu said. After starting life rather slowly in Stockholm, Olunga got to his best form mid-way through the term under new coach Mark Dempsey, and his burst of speed, positioning, ferocious left foot and clinical finishing have so far yielded eight goals for the club in nine matches.The former Gor Mahia striker also recounted the tough times he faced at the beginning. You have to work hard and bear in mind that you are from Kenya and that you are fighting for places with the locals. When I went there (Sweden), I had to put in extra work because there were four strikers in the team. Initially I was benched a lot but I did not despair. I worked hard in the gym and did extra sessions and when the new coach (Dempsey) came in, he gave me a chance and I took it, a brimming Olunga said.With age on his side, the Lucky Summer-born striker said that the hoped to score many more goals for the national team but pointed out that he did not want to be compared to the now retired Dennis The Menace Oliech, whose scored 34 goals for the country. I have 10 goals for the national team but I would not like to be compared to Oliech (Dennis) or any other striker. I just want to play my part, the left-footed striker. email print email print The club is in a race against time to beat Caf s November 30 deadline for Club Licensing. Mr Odinga had said that the project targeted all the seven rivers that feed the Tana. However, Ms Mwende said she will not consider remarrying. 