Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi wants the issue of the joint opposition presidential candidate to face President Uhuru Kenyatta resolved once and for all.Warning that time was running out for the opposition chiefs, Mr Mudavadi said he was ready to engage Cord principals Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetang ula with a view to deciding who among them will be the presidential candidate. It s time to stop the talk, Mr Mudavadi told mourners at the burial of a Form Four student at Mary Hill High School, Kate Kageha Khaniri, in Vihiga County. The deceased was a niece to Vihiga Senator George Khaniri.Saying he was the best bet to take on Mr Kenyatta during next year s elections, Mr Mudavadi noted: Well, I am ready. I urge all the people of Mulembe to join me and other Kenyans in removing this abusive regime that has the audacity to tell us we can only smell the meat even if we cook it. He criticised Jubilee supporters in western region and warned that they will be sent packing by voters come the elections.Present at the burial was Emuhaya MP Wilbur Otichillo, the chairman of the defunct Boundaries Review Commission, Mr Andrew Ligale, Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale, Lugari MP Ayub Savula and Luanda MP Chris Omulele. You want Jubilee sent packing by 8 am on August 8, 2017? We have one weapon against this frightful regime that weapon is Musalia Mudavadi. We have no time to argue. I am willing, ready and raring to go, the ANC leader stated.Mr Ligale, Mr Savula, Mr Otichillo and Mr Omulele called for political unity in the region ahead of the elections.On party hopping, Mr Mudavadi said many who had joined Jubilee were turning back in droves.Addressing the gathering, Dr Khalwale criticised President Kenyatta for bragging during the burial of former Cabinet minister William ole Ntimama that the opposition was salivating as those in power ate meat. President Uhuru told Kenyans to salivate is not to eat the meat. He confirmed that he was not elected to serve Kenyans but to eat our resources, he said.VERY BADMr Mudavadi also termed the President s remarks unfortunate.He said: Everybody is getting ready for elections. Some are even telling us our job is to smell the aroma (of meat) and not eat the meat. I felt insulted, totally violated when this was said to my face in Narok. He added: Remember, at one time we were called cooks and watchmen. Now we are being told we will never get near the kitchen. The ANC leader, however, called on the Luhya voters to recall the popular sentiments by a popular Russian communist revolutionary, politician, and political theorist, Mr Vladmir Lenin, who once said even a cook can be president .Mr Mudavadi said: Let s accept that we are not eating any meat, but we smell power. We want power. Let s all smell power. He exuded confidence that voters from the region would vote for him. And speaking at the burial of veteran musician William Ingosi Moshi in Tiriki, Vihiga county, Mr Mudavadi urged Western residents to support his presidential bid. You do not try only once and give up when you are looking for a child, he told the mourners, impressing upon them to vote for him once more during next year s elections. email print email print If Parliament endorses his nomination, he will be formally appointed by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Justice David Maraga portrayed himself during his interview as having an untainted past.