April Zhu is a Chinese-American painter and poet currently based at Kuona Trust in Nairobi. In Kenya initially as a designer and developer working with an NGO committed to empowering young Kenyan women, Zhu s artistic sense compelled the 24-year-old Wellesley College graduate to get back into her creative zone, where she pursues, among other things, her writing, painting and poetry. I began to paint when I was in middle school in the United States, says the Mandarin-speaking American, who began learning to make music long before she started to paint. From the age of six, she has been practicing either the violin, piano, guitar, ukulele or banjo, and more recently, she learned how to play the Taiko or Japanese drum.But for now, it s not music that is her first focus. Nor is it development or design, subjects she studied at university. Instead, she is keen on getting back to her painting and poetry. And so she will be having her first solo exhibition in Kenya, opening on October 21 at the Shifteye Gallery through November 4."Welcome to the Holocene" is the show she has been preparing since she moved into Kuona Trust in early July. What s the Holocene? I asked, unaware that it s the time we re currently living in, according to Wikipedia. (It s a geological epoch that began after the Pleistocene age around 10-12,000 years ago, at the end of the last ice age.)But if her show s title sounds esoteric, her colourful abstract expressionist paintings could also seem somewhat oblique. Yet since they re studies in colour, balance, mood and moment in Zhu s fascinating life, they will be well worth seeing, especially as all 10 oil paintings are monumental works, measuring five feet by four feet.What may serve as the key to her paintings is her poetry, which she hopefully will perform as well as post on Shifteye s pearly white walls. Set in free verse, her six poems are mirrors of her moods, shared generously by the artist whose life journey is just getting started. One can t help feeling we are fortunate to have her in our midst, however brief or extended her time here might be.Being the firstborn of a Chinese couple who struggled to emigrate from their homeland some 30 years ago, Zhu s coming to East Africa didn t make much sense to her parents. (Why didn t she get a job in Hong Kong or Shanghai or even Singapore, not in Africa, they apparently asked the first of their three daughters).But while at Wellesley, majoring in environmental studies and graphic design, she took a course at MIT (Massachusetts Institute of Technology) in a place called the D-Lab where she met another Chinese-American woman who had founded a company in Tanzania. Zhu worked there over one summer and discovered how much she enjoyed being in East Africa. So upon graduation she sought out another East African development-oriented enterprise which had her researching for a year in the States for them, after which she came to Kenya to work with the NGO in Nairobi.But when the time was ripe, she resigned and is now doing her art full time. Whether that means she will simply be writing poetry and painting or she ll start teaching Mandarin or performing her music professionally, time will tell. One thing is for sure, Zhu is at home in the Holocene wherever she s working and creating in this world.Meanwhile, the same day, October 21, Geraldine Robarts one-woman exhibition, "Window to the mind", will also open at Village Market and run through October 31. Featuring 90 of Geraldine s awesome oil paintings, it will reflect a lifetime of painting which has taken her all over the world. This versatile, infinitely varied artist mentored a multitude of young East African artists (both at Makerere and Kenyatta Universities) before she went full time into painting for shows that have taken her all over the world, from China to Canada, UK to Uganda and Kenya. Geraldine claims this will be her last exhibition, but no one would like to believe she s serious. But her show will be worth seeing in VM s Exhibition Hall. email print email print But his speech was interrupted by the mourners. The amount was recovered from a bank account of the deputy governor&#039;s bodyguard, police said.