Champions Ulinzi Warriors will take on Equity Bank as the battle for places in Kenya Basketball Federation men s Premier League play-off semi-finals hots up at Nyayo Stadium Gymnasium this weekend.After failing to impress at the Fiba-Africa Zone Five Club Championship qualifiers in Dar es Salaam last week, Ulinzi Warriors are seeking to finish the regular season of the 12-team league in the first two positions. The soldiers are currently third on the table of standings with 33 points, having won 16 matches and lost two. Ulinzi have forfeited one match against rivals Co-op Bank. The Eastleigh-based Ulinzi Warriors rise to 39 points with victory over Equity Bank on Saturday and win their remaining two matches in the regular season. Ulinzi, coached by William Balozi, still have to face KPA in Mombasa and USIU-A Tigers in Nairobi.Co-op Bank, who lead the standings with 39 points, are sure to finish top with 41 points if they beat hosts KPA in Mombasa in their last match on October 29.Equity Bank, who are sixth with 28 points after winning 11 matches and losing six, are out of the running for the first two positions.Led by Brian Obimbo and Vincent Onsongo, Equity will be fighting for the remaining six slots to qualify for the play-offs. On Sunday, Equity Bank will battle it out with relegation-bound Strathmore University.Ulinzi will rely on Eric Mutoto, William Ochieng, Victor Odendo and Ancette Wafula against Equity Bank.At the same time, Kenya Ports Authority men and women s teams will be in Nairobi this weekend to battle for second leg points. KPA, who are out of contention for the two top positions, will take on hosts Blades on Saturday at 3pm. On Sunday, KPA will conclude their two-match tour against relegation-bound Nakuru Club starting from 4.30pm.Nakuru Club, who skipped their match against Strathmore University last weekend, are already relegated.WEEKEND FIXTURES (At Nyayo)Saturday: Terrorists v JKUAT (9am), KAA v Barclays Bank (10.30am), Don Bosco v Riara University (12pm), Pirates v ANU (1.30pm), Blades v KPA (3pm), Equity Bank v Ulinzi Warriors (4.30pm).Sunday: Barclays Bank v JKUAT (9am), Pirates v KAA (10.30am), Strathmore University v KPA-women (12pm), Masaku Sparks v Equity Bank (1.30pm), Equity Bank v Strathmore University (3pm), KPA v Nakuru Club (4.30pm). email print email print But his speech was interrupted by the mourners. The amount was recovered from a bank account of the deputy governor&#039;s bodyguard, police said.