A storm is brewing over a lucrative send-off package given to former National Social Security Fund (NSSF) Managing Trustee Richard Lang at.Mr Lang at was initially suspended on corruption allegations after his name featured in President Uhuru Kenyatta s "list of shame" last year before he was later cleared.He was suspended following allegations of Sh5.053 billion irregular tender award to China Jiangxi International Kenya, a construction company, for the development of Nairobi s Tassia Housing scheme. But he will now exit the fund a satisfied man following an offer approved by the board and seen by Sunday Nation. After many court battles to stay on, he requested to leave in a letter dated August 15, 2015 and the board chaired by Mr Gideon Ndambuki appears to have approved most of the terms he gave. The board has considered your proposed exit package and now makes the following counter offer, reads part of a letter from the Board dated August 29.In the counter offer, Mr Lang at will be paid his full monthly salaries for the five months he was suspended (April to August 2016), as well as his monthly pay for the entire contract period that was meant to expire in March 2017.A further 31 per cent gratuity on his consolidated pay as provided in the contract plus all his outstanding leave days will be paid for. The offer is also laced with a certificate of service. Further, the former NSSF boss will have any of his pending loans maintained at the staff rate of 5 per cent until payment is complete. Mr Lang at told the Sunday Nation he was happy with the offer. They have paid me my full contract period and in any case that is what I was going to earn. I sat with the board and we agreed that there is no point fighting for the office when there are people who were bent on seeing me out even after I was cleared."My conscience is clear and I feel it is time to let NSSF proceed. I am very comfortable with the offer, he said.The deal appears to have paved way for the advertisement of the top NSSF position on Friday with applications closing on September 28. The giant fund has over the years been trying to clean up its image after years of losing billions of shillings in scandals involving politically connected individuals.Dr Anthony Omerikwa has been acting as Managing Trustee, a position considered one of the riskiest top jobs with its holders frequently being forced out. UNDESERVED PAYMENTMr Lang at, who had worked at NSSF for 22 years, failed to stop a court from hearing a case filed against him by the Central Organisation of Trade Unions (Cotu) in May after the Employment and Labour Court Judge Hellen Wasilwa ruled in favour of the workers umbrella body.Cotu had filed the case, claiming that Labour Cabinet Secretary Phyllis Kandie wanted to assist Mr Lang at and two other embattled NSSF managers to resume office without the knowledge and consent of the NSSF board of trustees, which is their employer.The Labour Court had in February barred Ms Kandie from reinstating Mr Lang at, Gideon Kyengo (General Manager) and Mutemi Nzatu (Manager property development).It is then that NSSF Board of Trustees Chairman Me Kariithi Murimi mysteriously quit barely six months after he was appointed.The tough anti-corruption crusader, who died in June this year, is said to have been uncomfortable with the furious fights with the organisation that had attracted many powerful individuals in government.The Consumer Federation of Kenya (Cofek) Secretary-General Stephen Mutoro described the package given to the former managing trustee as an unlawful and extra ordinary . Why would he be paid for months he has not worked while we know he had no security of tenure? That means he is the most special of all his predecessors because no one has ever had that kind of a package before. "The Board should be surcharged for giving such a reckless offer. That is just misuse of public funds, Mr Mutoro said.Cofek had challenged Mr Lang at s appointment and now claims the board was in a rush to save him from the court battles by letting him go.Last year the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions told the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to close Mr Lang at s file saying there was no evidence of criminality against him.The chairman and Cotu Secretary-General Francis Atwoli, who also sits on the board, did not immediately respond to our queries. email print email print Kenya is lobbying against the planned agreement between US and 12 Asian states for fear of losingPeres will be buried next to Rabin, who was assassinated in 1995 by a Jewish extremist opposed to