What happens when one transits to the hereafter, or more precisely, when they journey to that morbid land from where no one returns? Throw in the loss of memory as one crosses the bridge to the afterlife zombie like and struggles to make sense of their past and present circumstances. The intrigue heightens. Well, a Kenyan drama film that dares to fantasise on the same featured in the prestigious Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF), and dared to win a prize in one of the world s biggest cinema jamborees.Kati Kati, co-authored by Mbithi Masya and Mugambi Nthiga, appeared in the One Fine Day film series gathered from across the world by the TIFF organisers and presented to what is arguably the largest audience on Friday last week.Directed by Masya and co-produced by One Fine Day Films and Ginger Link, it won the International Federation of Film Critics (FIPRESCI) Prize for the discovery program. The judges described the Kati Kati as an exciting and unique new voice in cinema and commended it for its poetic non-prejudicial tone.In the film, Kaleche (played by Nyokabi Gethaiga) finds herself lost in the wilderness. She is amnesiac and wanders into a lodge in the middle of the wilderness called Kati Kati, where she meets a group of residents. As she struggles to recall and reflect on her past, Thoma (Elsaphan Njora), the leader of the residence, informs her that she is in the land of the dead and will never return to where she came from.Kaleche s entry into the lodge triggers a mental shift among the residents who begin to reflect on their deeds and misdeeds in their previous lives. The film touches on various themes in Kenya such as alcohol and drug abuse as well as the post-election violence. Among the Kati Kati inhabitants that Kaleche interacts with are a priest who was killed in revenge after he abandoned his flock to be burnt alive in a church. Another one is a man who had wasted his life drinking alcohol and died of alcohol related causes.Kaleche and Thoma cossy up to a short-lived intimate relationship. It turns out that they were couples in their herebefore lives.TIFF is said to be one of the largest publically attended film festivals in the world, gathering over 500,000 people annually. It was started in 1976 in Toronto, Canada as the Festival of Festivals and harvests films from other festivals around the world to offer its mammoth audience of film lovers and give them a world-class cinematic experience. No doubt Kati Kati s victory puts the Kenyan film industry at the centre. email print email print Kenya is erecting a wall on the porous Somalia border to minimise infiltration by terrorists. The outgoing commissioners will serve their notice, which will expire as new ones take office.