Q.I am currently doing B.Com specialising in HR and finishing next semester before I start my attachment in January. I also want to start my masters in HR, where I will be taking evening classes. However, some people support the idea while others are against it. My desire is to have qualifications that give me a better CV compared to my colleagues as we join the job market. But some people have advised me to at least gain some work experience before pursuing my masters. I am very confused as I do not know what to pick. Please advise me on what is best for me.Thank you. I must commend you for choosing to use your time well by combining attachment with evening studies. This is even more appropriate when you are still fresh and young, and without a demanding work schedule. Just be sure to balance your time well such that your attachment duties do not suffer at the expense of your studies. You need that experience to launch your career.Many employers value experience and this is evidence in most job postings we see everyday. Other than trainee positions, many vacancies call for candidates with one to three years experience. In addition, if you check the academic qualifications for such jobs, you will notice that at some level a master s degree is not mandatory, while at middle level jobs, it becomes an added advantage.Going by this trend, your friends are right and your best bet is to ensure you solidify your experience. The good part is whether you start an attachment or get a job you can still pursue your studies in the evening, so stay focused. While experience is emphasized during recruitment, it is possible employers will see more potential in you given your higher level of qualifications compared to your competitors. In addition to technical competency, employers look for different attributes such as initiative, self-drive and using your free time to pursue more knowledge demonstrates determination and good use of your time. I am reminded of these wise words you don t have to be better than everybody else, you just have to be better than you have ever been . I am sure you will be comfortable with the decision you make. email print email print Looking at my experience, how do I advance my career? Mr Ruto said that Mr Mwangi posted the tweet on September 28The increasingly influential Mombasa governor is leading ODM leaders from Nyanza to mark the