Eugene Mburu is also known as Chef Pinchito. He attended the world-renowned Le Cordon Bleu School in London to study French Classical Gastronomy. In March 2016, he returned to Nairobi to accelerate our culinary scene, and to this end, started Street Feast, a food delivery service1. Street Feast? Why here, why now?A lot of food delivery options are humdrum. They are just not exciting or spontaneous. That is why I started Street Feast. I have travelled the world, lived in big cities and eaten all sorts of cuisine and I believe Kenyans want more. They are voracious with their taste buds and willingness to try out different stuff. There is a renaissance in our taste not only for food, but fashion, entertainment and arts as an aggregate. 2. How is it doing? Do you want to keel over yet?Like every other business, the beginning is always hard. With food, it s tenfold. Some days we make a killing, pun intended, others we barely scrape by. It is even harder when you have to use external systems for transport and packaging that may hinder your products quality or a customer s perspective. Variables such as cost of ingredients, health and safety, and suppliers, are a whole other very steep learning tangent. But no, in the end, even when we don t make big bucks, we are happy. 3. What is the plan for expanding the menu, if there is one?The plan is simple. Every day we try and do a never before done menu. We use fine dining ingredients and techniques to implement a street food menu that most Nairobians can relate with. If not, we use local ingredients in a contemporary way to try spark the interest of gastronomes around. We also have a separate business that caters for gourmet frozen foods such as meatloaves, samosas and even chicken liver pates. With time, we plan on extending our outreach to parties and festivals. 4. If you weren t a chef, you would be a...If I weren t a chef, I would be a cook. Haha! I don t know. I have studied Business Administration and Marketing as a minor. I like anything artsy. If I could-the keyword being could-, paint or sing, my life would be complete. I am also into fashion. You can never trust someone who doesn t make an effort in how they look. 5. What Kenyan artist would you pay Sh5,000 to see?I am such a big fan of Kenyan Music although it is underrated. I remember living in London, I would always boom Sauti Sol albums and Kato Change s album at dinner parties for clients or social soirees with friends. I live for Nyashinski and his lyricism. If someone can get the whole Ogopa DJs camp back together for a live performance, I am in. Hook, line and sinker! Take my Sh5,000. All of it. email print email print Peres will be buried next to Rabin, who was assassinated in 1995 by a Jewish extremist opposed to Ms Tutui said the court would have given orders for immediate realisation of the rule.