I have just finished writing a play titled Marriage Handcuffs as a contribution to the troubled waters of modern marriage. However, writing a play is one thing, and having it staged is a different thing altogether. Sadly, the play might even outlive me in its unstaged status.In fact, I have written six plays so far, but only one of them has been staged.Writing and being unpublished should not stop a committed author from writing. When the idea and the urge crops up for you to write, it hits you like a pregnancy. It should be born or, worse, it will be aborted.Throughout my writing career, I have been plagued and pushed by the fear that foreign cultural values will soon bury the aesthetics of African integrity. We have reached a stage in which when you talk about African values, young people ask: What are they? Others ask: What do you mean by African values? When you talk about African integrity, be prepared to answer the question: What is it that you can describe as African integrity? They don t ask that because they are stupid but because they are ignorant of those values, which never feature in the school curriculum. The curriculum is the best way to grow culturally pathetic citizens who believe in Hollywood.The overview of this is best expressed by a quote from an extraordinary manuscript I read, called From Marriage to Divorce, by Dr Joyce Nzulwa, a reflection of her own collapsed marriage. She says: I cannot overlook the growing-up picture of marriage which is a cocktail of na ve mental script. You grow up flying in the clouds of life. In those clouds you are positioned to think that marriage as a rosy portrait of selfless love. This is an obvious lamentation of the grave social ignorance in the young generation.I don t know of any political party in Africa founded on African values. When the British talk about the Conservative Party, they proudly recognise a party that expresses and promotes British cultural values. Kenya became independent just the other day, that is why the term post-colonial states is still fashionable. Before the arrival of African independence, it was thought by foreign scholars that Africans had neither a history nor a philosophy. Independence has given us a chance to debunk this myth. However, that effort has been very insignificant.Most of our scholars are plants growing up in the pots of our post-colonial masters. If only our leaders and scholars had taken the step to remove themselves from those pots and planted themselves on African soil, our young people would not be asking about African values. How true of the Swahili statement that mwacha mila ni mtumwa (he who abandons his culture becomes a slave)? WHAT CAN WE DIE DEFENDING?You can start the dialogue by asking, as Africans, what is it that we can die defending? What is the pride of being black? What is it that blacks can teach the world? On the world market, what hardware does the black man bring to that market?It was the psychology of feeling hopeless and the search for identity that forced Black Americans to start saying Black is beautiful. But is black really beautiful? What are the dimensions and aesthetics of that beauty compared to the beauty of non-blacks? What is it that the black man has done to prove to the world that he is equal to anybody else?Up to this stage, politicians have done miracles in making us embrace imported values and structures. But they have performed miserably in helping us reclaim and promote African integrity. Civilisation is not only speaking in foreign languages. We can speak those languages yet remain puppets of the natives of those languages. The slave can speak perfectly the language of the master yet he remains a slave.The grand challenge should be for us to speak their languages and use those languages to prove to them how important we are.But what new technics can we use to become the Mohammed Alis of the cultural boxing ring? My answer is that we must go back to the forest and learn the witchcraft of cultural survival. In that forest we will find that the only weapons left for us to use are arts. The most healing herb will come from creative writing. Chinua Achebe used Things Fall Apart and other works to reclaim a portion of that dignity.Ngugi used The River Between and other works to reclaim that portion. So did Okot p,Bitek, Grace Ogot, Ayi Kwei Armah and the others. It is the culturally committed writer who is going to help us reclaim and reshape our cultural values.ON THE WHITE MAN'S MENUWhat the black man may easily forget is that, for ages, he has been on the white man s menu. Hunters and butchers know how to cut up prey. Slave trade, the scramble for Africa, colonialism, neo-colonialism, and, lately, the scramble for African natural resources. The African is being eaten alive!The African can only fight hardest and win in this battle if he knows the value of what he has to defend.Who says the African cannot excel in technology? Four decades ago, Kipchoge Keino won an Olympic medal and astounded the world. Today, Kenyans dominate the world in athletics.The worst poverty is the poverty of knowledge. Africans are starving for creative works brewed in the African pot. Culturally, we have been pushed into the ICU. Only writers armed with the skill and power of bewitching the African mind can remove us from that ICU.The best that our government can do is to aggressively support writers to come up with creative works. Without a strong publishing industry, those creative works cannot reach the consumer. Without theatre centres, the written plays will never reach consumers. African pioneer writers engaged the reader with inspiring cultural material. Unfortunately, we have a new generation that has not picked up things from where the pioneers left. The pioneer generation is facing its sunset.The psychology of African socialism is heavily founded on the family and the neighbourhood. Socialism is expressed by the statement I am because they are and they are because I am. When I cry they cry with me and when they cry I cry with them. In African philosophy, individualism is a liability rather than an asset. Leadership and material things must come only to glorify the social fabric of the community, but not as a factor for disunity. Spiritual poverty is worse than material poverty. email print email print The first batch of doctors will be promoted by October 7. The nine IEBC commissioners will know their individual payouts on Monday.