Women in Kenya s urban areas are willing to date and get married but not so many want their men to touch their money, a new survey has shown. Matters about operating joint bank accounts, sharing personal bank details and footing household bills drew strong responses when research firm Trends and Insights for Africa (Tifa) interviewed 2,433 women in 31 counties on relationships.Asked if they would be comfortable sharing their Automated Teller Machine (ATM) Personal Identification Number (PIN) with their men, only 29 per cent of married women said they can, with 27 per cent saying they were not sure. At least 44 per cent of the married women were adamant that they can never share the PIN with the men in their lives.Among those who are yet to be married, 51 per cent said they cannot share their PIN with their partners, with only 20 per cent saying they could. Of those who took part in the research, 1,832 are married while 601 are single. This decision can be viewed in two ways, either as a security concern or a trust issue. If for any reason one of the partners card is defrauded, they would not want to lay blame on one another for maybe being irresponsible when using the other partner s money, says Tifa s analysis of the poll results.Women who spoke to the Sunday Nation on Saturday were divided on whether their male companions should know something as sensitive as their ATM PINs, which literally means full access to their bank accounts.SHARE ACCESS CODE I don t see any wrong with giving him my PIN if I trust him, said Ms Joyce Ndunge, a businesswoman in Nairobi s Embakasi area who has been married for four years.But Ms Anne Muthoni, a teacher at the Coast and who is single, vowed never to share the access code. I d have no control of how much he withdraws, she stated.Men that the Sunday Nation interviewed had even more reservations about sharing their PIN with their spouses, with an elderly man repeatedly saying ni wakora hao watu (those people are tricksters) . Do you know that a woman is an enemy? asked Reuben Mutuku, 53, a newspaper vendor in Nairobi who is a father of three. She can be friendly to you because she loves your money, but after you marry, after you show her all your secrets, she ll steal all your property then leave you. Don t accept to share information about your money. Mr Mutuku gave examples of prominent men who have been left languishing because they entrusted sensitive information to women, concluding that there are secrets that women are never told .Mr Ibrahim Musa, 20, lamented that he had broken up with his girlfriend five days earlier because she got a job and no longer considered his salary worthy. Mr Musa said he cannot reveal his ATM PIN to the woman he will marry. That is private life, he said. Trust should be there but that is personal life. Nairobi-based researcher Victor Ooko, however, said by the time people are getting married, they should be trusting each other enough to share any details. She s my better half and in case of anything, she s the one who is responsible for my family. She s my confidante. So, I don t see any reason why not because if you love her enough to marry her, then what s an ATM PIN? questioned the 25-year-old who is single.The Tifa survey also touched on whether women would contemplate opening a joint bank account with their spouses.RUN JOINT ACCOUNTSThirty-seven per cent of married women said they could not imagine doing it while 46 per cent of singles gave it a big No. Only 32 per cent of the married women said they would run joint accounts, with an equal number saying they were not sure. Couples are increasingly marrying at an older age and by the time they get married, they could bring considerable assets, income and even debt to a union. Such factors coupled with lack of trust could be driving the urban women not to open joint bank accounts, Tifa says.Ms Ndunge said joint accounts work better with family commitments to do with school fees and such .But Mr Mutuku said he can never buy the idea of a joint account. Open your own account and if you separate, everybody goes their way. What if you open an account with her then she steals your money and you don t have any other money, how will you live? he questioned.Mr Musa, who has lasted barely a week since his separation, said he cannot contemplate a joint account because wanawake ni kigeugeu (women are turncoats) .Also, the women in the survey were asked if they would chip in to pay household bills if circumstances called for it. Of the married, 41 per cent said they could take part in footing the bills. Surprisingly, the unmarried women were more willing to foot family bills, with 42 per cent saying they would chip in. Ms Ndung e said she has no qualms splitting the bill. There is no man s or woman s money. Money is money. What I believe is, there is no one who can t lack money. One day he ll lack the money or I lack it, she said.Mr Ooko said: The belief that the woman s finances are not the family s finances is misguided. It s misplaced and it s a ridicule of gender equality as a campaign promoting the rights of women and maybe even gender balance. The surveyors also asked their subjects whether they had ever argued with their partners over money. Of the married, 41 per cent said yes , 30 per cent said maybe and 29 per cent said no . Of the singles, 33 per cent said yes , 30 per cent said maybe while 37 per cent said no . email print email print Research in 31 counties indicates single women are more willing to split bills than married.Kenya is lobbying against the planned agreement between US and 12 Asian states for fear of losingPeres will be buried next to Rabin, who was assassinated in 1995 by a Jewish extremist opposed to