Once a politician, always a politician. He announced his retirement from politics in 2014, but last month, aged 86, weak in limb and frail of body, he was among Maasai leaders who travelled to Nairobi to join the newly formed Jubilee Party.As a Cabinet Minister of long standing (1988 to 2013), a penchant for controversy and a bottle for political battle, William Ntimama was a national leader.But to most Kenyans, he was first a Maasai leader and a champion of their dignity, culture and pride. Therein lies his legacy; Ntimama saw, read and interpreted the politics of the land through the prism of the rights of the Maasai.It is a standpoint that was anchored and shaped by a burning desire to right the wrongs committed by the British colonialists and subsequent post-independent regimes against the Maasai. As Ntimama told it time and again, the British, via the fraudulent 1904 and 1911 so-called agreements, robbed the Maasai of their fertile and expansive land and then dispersed them into the tsetse fly-infested and infertile regions they now occupy. The British, he would remind all, did not compensate the Maasai for loss of their land; and successive African governments did not consider returning the land to its rightful owners. Having served as chairman of the rich and now defunct Narok County Council for 14 years before he was elected to Parliament in 1988, as the MP for Narok North and appointed Minister for Supplies and Marketing and later Local Government, Ntimama knew neither compensation nor return of lands would happen.So he waged a long crusade of defending the current land of the Maasai from infiltration by, or sale to non-Maasai. Indeed, Ntimama took the fight for Maasai rights a notch higher when he got the community to be recognised by the UN Commission on Indigenous Peoples Rights as a vulnerable group and led a large delegation to the UN in Geneva in the 1990s.The reason why, Ntimama explained, was that quite apart from the Maasai having their fertile land stolen from them; they were threatened by wild animals; they were susceptible to sleeping sickness and did not have friends among their neighbours.By this time Ntimama had not only established himself as the leader of the Maasai, but also the Maa speakers and, together with his fellow Maasai nationalist and friend, Mr John Keen, had reached out to the Maasai of Tanzania for establishment of a closer Maa speakers union. On the way, Ntimama ruffled plenty of feathers. In 1990 as the campaign for plural politics took off in earnest, for example, he quickly established himself as a vocal and uncompromising defender of Kanu s constitutional monopoly of power. Ntimama was the first Kanu hawk to declare then Narok District an exclusive Kanu zone. It was at this time that a zealous Ntimama ordered the non-Maasai in Narok to lie low like an antelope hiding from marauding predators. The Daily Nation reporter then thought he had talked about envelopes and wrote so in his story. Ntimama thought lie-low-like-envelopes made his point even more graphically and emphatically. He did not correct the wrong impression until late into the last decade. It made me famous, I saw no need to correct it, he told this writer in 2009.Did Ntimama preach ethnic hate as the campaign for multi-party rule gathered pace and was eventually established in 1992? He denied it, but his words tell a different story. In 1990, he called a certain community in Narok the Igbo of Kenya and warned that they would be cut down to size if they did not toe the Kanu or Maasai line. A good propagandist in the lead-up to the 1992 multi-party General Election, he explained the symbols of the competing parties in terms meant to elicit their outright rejection by the Maasai.Getting my name wrong in an interview in Narok Town, Ntimama said, Kwenda, I have given these people political poison. Ford and DP will have a tough time here. They are not welcome. The clenched fist salute of DP means the party wants five head of cattle from every Maasai man and Ford s two-finger salute means they want two cows. Without saying it, Ntimama had branded Kanu s rivals as enemies of the Maasai out to plunder their wealth. Many blame Ntimama for the flare-up of inter-ethnic violence in Enoosupukia in Narok in 1992.Ntimama the host and or discussant and Ntimama on the political stump were two different people. Often times, people meeting Ntimama in his home or private office would be struck and admire even his intelligence, ability to think on his feet, warmth and long and full-throttled laughter. Often times, a stumping Ntimama would instill passion and zeal for a cause in the Maasai and instil fear in their non-Maasai neighbours. There is no doubt that he enjoyed the eye and ear and protection or tolerance of President Moi. In a 2013 interview with this paper, Ntimama said Mr Moi used him to fight Kikuyus but he was willing to be used. That is unsurprising. Nearly all members of the Sixth Parliament were sycophants and outdid each other in singing praises to Mr Moi.It was, indeed, difficult to tell the well-educated and cultured from less-schooled, trained or groomed. That is surprising. Ntimama was a self-read or self-made scholar. He read deep into the night and would quote what Mahatma Gandhi, Winston Churchill, Martin Luther King or Abraham Lincoln said when, to whom and on what occasion. It takes a great deal of discipline, determination and commitment for one to study on his own through secondary school without setting foot in a classroom and acquire professional certificates through correspondence. Charity begins at home. It is fitting that Ntimama s expansive library will form a major part of Narok University Library in whose construction he played a significant role. Mr Moi and Ntimama did fall out in 2002 and the latter went into Opposition briefly in 2005. And when the Grand Coalition government was formed in 2007, the Maasai leader was back in government. email print email print President Kenyatta remembered the Mr Ntimama for his devotion to serving the nation and his contribution to the independence struggle. Ms Tutui said the court would have given orders for immediate realisation of the rule. But the passport was not stamped, meaning he did not pass through the immigration desk.