The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission is ready to conduct party nominations but wants regulations to be developed on the matter.IEBC chairman Issack Hassan on Monday said the electoral agency had prepared well for the primaries and awaits clarification on how it can proceed when approached by political parties. The commission is ready, able and willing to conduct party nominations. The law stipulates that a party can request the commission to conduct them. However, there should be regulations on how the commission can enter into an agreement with a party, including who funds them, said Mr Hassan, when he appeared before the Senate s County Public Accounts and Investments Committee that is chaired by Kisumu Senator Anyang Nyong o.The Election Laws (Amendment) Act amended the Political Parties Act to allow parties to make such requests in future. The commission shall, upon the request of a political party, conduct and supervise the nomination of candidates by the political party for presidential, parliamentary or county elections in accordance with Article 88 of the Constitution, says the Act.The recently launched Jubilee Party, to be used by President Kenyatta to seek re-election next year, plans to engage the agency in its nominations in a bid to avert a fallout normally associated with contested primaries.When the party was launched early this month, Deputy President William Ruto promised members that they will provide funds to the IEBC to conduct their nominations.Senators wanted to know whether the commission was willing to be part of the nominations. I have not heard you speak publicly about whether you are ready to conduct party nominations. Are you ready? asked Kiambu Senator Kimani Wamatangi.The lawmakers also asked if the IEBC could block county officers who fail to clear audit queries from vying for various elective positions until they do so.They said it was worrying that some governors had refused to appear before the Senate to respond to audit queries yet they were planning to defend their seats next year. email print email print Mr Odinga said his party is not keen on going into the polls as a coalition. The first batch of doctors will be promoted by October 7.