Impala Sports Club comes alive Saturday when hosts Impala Saracens and defending champions Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) face off in the Impala Floodlit final.The hosts will not only be seeking revenge after they suffered a 26-14 defeat to the bankers in front of their home crowd in last year s final but will also be looking for their first Floodlit title since 2010.The bankers beat Impala in the Floodlit final last year but the Ngong Road-based team returned with renewed determination later in the season to beat KCB twice in Kenya Cup. They claimed a 19-15 win in regular season before stopping KCB from succesfully defending their Kenya Cup 8-7 in the semi-finals.Impala Saracens, sponsored by Resolution Insurance, lost to Kabras Sugar 22- 9 in the Kenya Cup final.Under the leadership of the club s director of rugby Fred Ollows, Impala silenced neighbours Kenya Harlequin 13-11 in one of the most exciting semi-final matches in the recent past to set up date with KCB, who beat Nakuru 28-26 in the other nail-biting semi-final.The finalists have done well in their campaigns that have witnessed quality displays, what with most teams putting fielding their best sides in a tournament billed as a perfect pre-season build-up ahead of the Kenya Cup that starts in three weeks. Impala Saracens, who are chasing their seventh Cup success, tossed out Strathmore Leos 34-15 in the quarters before silencing Quins, while five-time champions KCB stopped Homeboyz 28-19.Ollows has made two tactical changes to his side that bundled out Quins while KCB team manager Ronnie Kangeta has made only one change to his squad. He takes charge of the team as coach Curtis Olago who lost his sister last week is away.Dennis Karani, who started as a loose-head prop against Quins, will play as tight-head prop while Edgar Obino, who started as a hooker, assumes the role of a tight-head prop. Dennis Karani s younger brother Kelvins is the new entrant to the team, taking over as hooker while Kenya Sevens player Samuel Oliech comes in as full-back to replace Mark Kwemoi.In Impala s technical bench, Anthony Orege, who played as tight-head last weekend, comes to the bench, replacing Meshack Tunechi, with lock Eric Kerre replacing Harritone Munai. MAIN CUPFinal:- KCB vs. Impala (7pm)Plate final:- Homeboyz vs. Strathmore (5.10pm)Universities final:- Menengai Oilers vs. Blak Blad (3.10pm)Schools final :- Laiser hill vs. Ofafa Jericho (1.30pm)Women final:- Thika Road vs. Ngong Road (11.40am) email print email print The pilots said the issues they had regarding management of the airline have been resolved. Safaricom has said it is trying to resolve the problem.