By the time I penned last week s article asking coach Jos Marcelo Ze Maria Ferreira to shape up or ship out, it was just hours before we suffered the ignominious defeat at the hands of Nzoia Sugar.This just reinforces my firm belief that this Brazilian is a fake and that should be sent packing.He has had five months with the team and all that Ze Maria has done is to specialise in draws, drawing matches like it was going out of fashion. All I hear from that technical bench is that the man is still planning on that team to gel. Gel for what? Is he waiting to take Gor Mahia to the 2022 World Cup?On the other hand, I have heard of all manner of apologists defending the indefensible, saying that it is normal for K Ogalo to go through ups and downs.Which is total crap if you ask me. By this time last year, Gor Mahia was a hot thing in regional football.As I stated last week, who can forget the war of attrition the boys waged in Dar es Salaam, reaching the finals of the regional tournament. GROUP OF ASSASSINS Ze Maria , I know you had not joined Gor Mahia then but have you, as a serious coach, gotten recordings of that merciless group of assassins that feared no one at the region s elite tournament? Can you say that it is the same team you are saddling us with now? Just what justification do you have sitting in the dugout in the name of Gor Mahia?For those claiming that K Ogalo must have ups and downs my question is, when will we move forward and be in the top league of African football where I believe a club of Gor s pedigree belongs? Are you people forgetting that it is the very same Gor Mahia that won the inaugural Nelson Mandela Cup in 1987? Can we expect that achievement under Ze Maria? Not in this lifetime. Coupled with his tactless coaching, I have also heard stories of how disrespectful the Brazilian is to his fellow technical bench members, especially Africans. I have been to Brazil and I know for a fact that the black citizens of that country are not looked upon in very high regard and I sincerely hope that Ze Maria is not trying to bring that idiotic thinking to Kenya.From what is see on social media, seems there is a section of the club s supporters who are convinced that only fresh elections can help clean up the mess in the club. Which makes me wonder, when are we holding elections?[email&#160;protected] email print email print Ms Tutui said the court would have given orders for immediate realisation of the rule. But the passport was not stamped, meaning he did not pass through the immigration desk.