Kenya Ports Authority teams will be seeking to qualify for this year s Kenya Basketball Federation men and women s Premier League semi-final play-offs when they engage in three tricky return leg matches at their KPA Makande gymnasium backyard this weekend.On Saturday, KPA, who returned home with three points from their recent tour of Nairobi, will face tough opposition at home when they host much experienced Nairobi-based Thunder. KPA women s side, on the other hand, are expected to maintain their unbeaten run this season as they entertain struggling coach Ben Oluoch s Storms today at 2pm. On Sunday, KPA men, who lost 47-39 to USIU-A Tigers away in Nairobi last weekend but immediately recovered to rock Strathmore University 58-41, will host Kenya College of Accountancy-University. Twenty-four second leg matches are lined up in Nairobi, Eldoret, Mombasa and Nakuru on Saturday and Sunday.Thunder are riding high having demolished Lions 81-71 last weekend and super star Griffins Ligare, Abel Nson and Kevin Chogo are capable of denying KPA two key points before their home fans if not put to check. Coach Anthony Ojukwu of KPA has confidence in aggressive fighter Evans Leting, Samuel Ocholla, Allan Owino and Tobias Onyango, who should rise to the occasion with the support of the cheering home crowd.KPA women s team, with assistant coach Philip Onyango on the bench, are expected to harvest maximum four points from their two matches to keep their unbeaten run in 14 outings. Storms under coach Ben Oluoch are facing stiff opposition this season and whether experienced Angela Luchivya, Sylvia Omollo and Celestine Isabwa can pull a big upset of ending KPA s unbeaten record at home remains to be seen.KPA had a poor scoring record against defending champions USIU-A Flames whom they defeated 52-28. It is expected that Brenda Angeshi, Natalie Akinyi, Annerose Akinyi and Lucy Ohanga will have worked on the shooting weaknesses to enhance the dock women s chances of remaining the only unbeaten team this year.On Saturday at Upper Hill School, relegation threatened Eagle Wings will face Kenyatta University Oryx at 3pm. Tomorrow, Eagle Wings will take on champions USIU-A Flames. email print email print Duale at the same time told the CJ nominee that he must respect the three arms of government. Monitors have blamed government forces for attacks on the protection sites.