We should emulate Ntimama and learn to love our booksby Oginga Orowe This past week saw the passing on of former minister William ole Ntimama, who has been eulogised as a self-made or self-read man who would express himself in impeccable EnglishKwendo Opanga writes: He read deep into the night and would quote what Mahatma Gandhi, Winston Churchill, Martin Luther King or Abraham Lincoln said when, to whom and on what occasion. (Saturday Nation, September 3, 2016)Rarely is a man remembered on account of a stock or wealth of books that one leaves behind. It is usually land and other properties. A quest for books is a pursuit for intellectual nourishment. A book is a channel for the flow of ideas between one mind and another.The former Heritage minister and former Narok North MP was a lover of books. As he travelled abroad, over time, he was able to put together a remarkable library. In later years he donated his stock of books to Narok University library, which he termed as his legacy to his people.He was a great admirer of Martin Luther King, Abraham Lincoln and Mahatma Gandhi. He cited the leaders as the people who influenced him the most; Martin Luther King for leading the civil rights movement and Abraham Lincoln for emancipating the black man from slavery.Different books will help us expand our minds and open our hearts to new ideas. As an example, biographies are known to transmit personality and give opportunity to asses one s true worth of character.In an article published on these pages recently, I pointed out that taking in the wisdom and knowledge of who your mentors like to read will get you closer to being of the same mind than simply reading out their memoirs and journals.Ntimama attended Ole Sankale Primary School in Narok before proceeding to Kahuhia Teachers Training College. He later obtained a Diploma in Legal Studies from Oxford University, a course he studied by correspondence.Although formal schooling from nursery all the way up to the college gives one an advantage in knowledge acquisition, those who have not had this opportunity can still acquire any form of desired knowledge. A vast majority of information is free to access at your local or community library, and many have kept on learning even when they may not have been able to attend school or college.There have been great people who have attained their education from out of a public library or from their own homes. Many well-known names have used books to expand their minds. Many have gone on to be writers, journalists, political leaders, and businesspeople. A library card in the hands of a determined learner can be a very powerful thing indeed.Abraham Lincoln, one of the best-known and best-loved presidents of the USA, spent his early days growing up on the frontier, where the family didn t always have access to schools. It is reported that Lincoln only had one year s worth of classes between the ages of six and 15, taught whenever the community could find a teacher. Lincoln instead educated himself through reading books. He was fascinated by them and spent nearly every minute of his spare time with his nose in a book, learning about history, philosophy, and literatureBooks were scarce on the border and he would often went out of his way to borrow titles he hadn t yet read, once walking 20 miles to get a book on the United States. All that reading paid off, especially when it came to the law. Lincoln taught himself enough to pass the bar, and would go on to be a great orator, leader, and president.When Kenyatta University (KU) introduced Institute of Open Learning in 2002, the programme attracted record numbers and the university received over 10,000 applications from adult learners. The new courses, administered by KU s Directorate of Open Learning, are being delivered in modular form via distance-learning methods and on-site lectures.As Francis Bacon said, Reading maketh a full man; speaking, a ready man, writing, an exact man. The writer teaches at Ng iya Girls High School in Siaya County and is the author of Managing the 24 Hours of Your Day. [email&#160;protected]***It takes hard work to write a guide bookby Kairu KamuriI read Rimita Mutethia Rukunga s article titled Avoid cheap guide books for set texts (Saturday Nation, September 3, 2016) with considerable interest. I agree with the writer that there are indeed some substandard guides in the market.Some of them have been hurriedly assembled as the authors intent is only to cash in on the huge demand. Actually, some have glaring typographical and factual errors that can be dreadfully expensive to students.However, for Rukunga to condemn all the guide books and say the writers have thrown their energies and brains into writing cheap, substandard and misleading leaflets is to miss the point. He himself as an author, ironically of guide books which he so vehemently admonishes, he should know that committing pen to paper to write a book is a laboriously unnerving exercise.For instance, it took me about six months to write a guide book titled The Benchmark Study Guide to The Caucasian Chalk Circle. Much of this time was used in reading and re-reading the text, engaging with colleagues and doing research.Rukunga s vitriol on guide books seems to target those published by non-mainstream publishers which he contemptuously assigns a tag and calls them products of River Road.Yet, it is this alternative route that has given refuge to countless authors whose works would not have seen the light of day.In addition, you cannot evaluate a book s value by its cost. Publishing is business and one of the considerations to make is the cost of the products. Giving your customers a competitive rate is a business strategy. A lowly priced book is not necessarily cheap. The value of it lies in the content.Most authors of these books have definitely committed more working hours to come up with a credible product than a classroom teacher would.As such, it would be hypocritical to lampoon all the guide books instead of subjecting them to critical evaluation and isolate the bad from the good. These books are a critical resource and one would be economising the truth to suggest that they be discarded.We must stop demonising guide books just for the sake of it. I believe these books are a melting pot of ideas where teachers of English meet to share with others.Just like what happens before buying any other product, teachers and students should take time to evaluate if the book they have set out to acquire has what they need. The best guide books are not necessarily published by the mainstream publishers but by the committed authors. The writer is a teacher in Naivasha and a book editor. He is also the author of Benchmark Study Guide to the Caucasian Chalk Circle, The River and the Source, Betrayal in the City, among others. [email&#160;protected]***Critics got me wrong on school fires and disciplineby Kiarie Ranji My Article titled Restore teachers authority in schools (Saturday Nation, August 6 2016) stirred a hornet s nest. According to my fellow teacher, Vivere Nandieomo, in his Article titled Embrace dialogue to stop these fires (Saturday Nation, August 13, 2016), my views sounded patronising and belligerent . That was not intended. Though Mr Nandiemo disagreed with me on almost all the points I raised, I would like to engage him on several issues he raised.First, on guidance and counselling in our schools. This programme was forced down teachers throats in mid 1980s by experts, who recommended it to replace corporal punishment. Twenty years later, indiscipline still persists.Why is it that violent riots are rampant in our universities, yet guidance and counselling departments in those institutions are headed by professors?For those who listen to vernacular stations, there was this proprietor of a private school near Nairobi, who would come on air every Saturday morning to lecture teachers on the effectiveness of guidance and counselling. Her school was soon burnt down as well and she disappeared from the airwaves.Man is a defiant animal. Our religious leaders daily preach to us about life s virtues, but our jails are full to the brim with criminals. Simply put, human beings whether students or otherwise, do not do wrong because they do not know it is wrong. They do it in defiance, and this must be controlled by some consequence the so called stick and carrot method. This is lacking in guidance and counselling.One point we seem to agree with Mr Nandiemo on is where he suggests that the government should dialogue with teachers on the best way to punish errant students. It should spell out what should be done to those found culpable of arson, just as it did to stem out exams leakages. It is not necessary to return corporal punishment, but we can borrow a leaf from our universities.If the senate disciplinary committee can suspend university students for a period of between one to three years, this can also be done in our high schools. Let the ministry of Education take over the cases of these arsonists and try them using uniform justice. Those found guilty, candidates or no candidates, should then be handed a suspension of between one and two years, during which they should not be allowed to transfer to any other school or sit exams as private candidates. Maybe, by the time they are re-admitted to school after two years, they will have matured enough to know the foolishness of playing around with fire. The writer is an educationist and freelance writer based in Nairobi***Allow speech writers some limelight for their workby Nobert Oluoch NdisioGood speech writing is an art that only a few men and women have ever mastered. The love for good oral skills is human nature. That s why exemplary speakers are given standing ovations. Martin Luther King Jnr, Mahatma Gandhi and Winston Churchill have been immortalised by their memorable quotes. US President Barack Obama and President Uhuru Kenyatta are endowed with the gift of gab.Unfortunately, few realise that a great orator is only as good as his speech writer. We fail to appreciate that the words with which these orators charm us are planted in their mouths by their speech writers, who bask in anonymity.Interestingly, a literary tragedy happened in July this year, and for once a speech writer was thrust into the limelight. Donald Trump is a US presidential contender. During the Republican national convention, his wife, Melania, delivered a speech that was well received. However, claims of plagiarism emerged. Parts of her speech had been lifted from Michel Obama s 2008 Democratic national convention speech. Sadly, it was through this that Melania Trump s speech writer s name was revealed.This incident got me thinking. First, I thought about an article I wrote almost a year ago in which I lamented that even though we tag a high premium on oratory skills, felicity in speech has been thrown to the dogs. Today, our political leaders scramble for microphones at public gatherings not to wow the masses with oral performances but to outdo one another in dressing down their political competitors. I thought, too, about the President, about his flowery speeches. Then I wondered about the craftsmen who create these speeches. I wondered whether these men and women could be given even a single moment of glory. Why, I wondered aloud, hasn t anybody ever got an award for being an outstanding speech writer?All factors considered, we are hugely indebted to speech writers. Leaders who rely on speech writers should share with them a bit of the limelight. This way, we will make speech writing a viable, prestigious and celebrated career. The writer is a primary school teacher and a budding author in Migori County. [email&#160;protected] email print email print The Budalang&#039;i MP will rebrand the Labour Party of Kenya, touted as the Third Force. The panel found that the judge had allocated himself a file without the duty judge&#039;s knowledge.