The media fraternity is mourning the sudden death of Chris Tsuma. The veteran sports journalist, who worked at the Daily Nation for over a decade, breathed his last on Saturday at the Komarock Modern Hospital in Nairobi. He was 50. Tsuma had been rushed to the hospital by family members after complaining of chest pains while working at the gym. He was pronounced dead on arrival. His body was later transferred to Chiromo mortuary. At the time of his death, Tsuma was a lecturer at KU, Narok and Mount Kenya universities.Elias Makori, who worked with Tsuma for many years, remembered him as an upright, hard working and no-nonsense professional . Chris was an upright, hard working and no-nonsense professional whom we shall remember for his love for sport, journalism and the academics. A big loss indeed. I remain honoured to have worked with him. His death is a big loss to sports journalism, Makori, the Nation Media Group Managing Editor (Sports), said.COVERED CRICKET WORLD CUP Chris is one of the best sports journalists I have ever come across. He had the highest sense of professionalism and was an understanding guy. He would write on almost every sport. He also left a great impact on sports, by writing about several aspects aside from what you and I can see and note, issues such as doping and corruption, Daily Nation Sport sub-editor Charles Nyende added.NMG Senior Editor Production and Quality, Kibe Kamunyu, eulogised Tsuma as a determined individual . I worked with Tsuma for more than a decade. He struck me as a determined individual who was impatient with mediocrity. Always impatient to get on with editing the sports pages. He did not suffer fools gladly. I also trained him in the use of the newspaper s publishing system and he was quick to learn, but would always ask what else can the system do. He gave me the impression he was hungry for more in life. I will greatly miss him, Kamunyu said.Veteran sports journalist Omolle Asiko said: I was honoured to cover the 2003 Cricket World Cup with him in South Africa where we developed a true sense of brotherhood as the only two scribes from Kenya recording history. I am lost for words. Veteran photographer Mohammed Amin recalled the last moments he spent with Tsuma. I spoke to him for a long while yesterday (Friday) night. We discussed a range of issues including some of our business ideas. He was a trusted brother, colleague and business associate. He didn t exhibit any sign of ill health. Life is short, Amin said.The late Tsuma hailed from Matioli village, Kakamega County, and is survived by two children, Roark and Thomas. email print email print All the mock examination papers bear the portrait of Governor Cornell Rasanga The said his country is trying to balance between opening up and controlling admission.