It s time for fans from all corners to rally behind our team regardless of their differences.AFC Leopards are currently staring relegation in the face! This was the same story in 2006 and coming back to the top flight league was not easy.Let us stand firm and focus on the main agenda of supporting the club during these hard times and calm will quickly return.We must find a short-term solution immediately as we look for a long term solution to enable the club have a completely new approach when the league resumes to avoid struggling again.Yes. reports have emerged that some players are indisciplined, but we can do our part to support our boys.Fans must turn up in large numbers to help the club earn reasonable revenue from gate collections.Former players have a task to meet the players in private to ensure that they are focused on performing to the best of their abilities in the remaining five league matches.The club management must lay down plans to raise extra funds to enable the team to meet budgetary obligations, organise the club s fan base to ensure home matches a sold out affair.The club s management should know that you are only a leader if you can lead the way.But if you feel the burden of leadership is heavy to bear, give way and let those with the wherewithal to lead. The work of the management is to cater for the players welfare and the technical bench. If you are not able to, ship out!INPUT VITALThe club s fans must know their input is vital. They must not leave the club affairs to be dealt solely by the officials.A few senior players have raised concern about discrimination against several emerging stars which has broadened the rift within the squad, and this must be stopped to save the club from going to the dogs.This issue of players staging go-slows ahead of matches protesting about unpaid bonuses should be looked into with sober and fresh minds to save the quickly diminishing status of the team.The wounded Ingwe now need at least four points from their five remaining games if they are to be guaranteed survival in the top flight league.Leopards play Ulinzi Stars away before hosting Gor Mahia at home.The others matches are against Sofapaka, Tusker and finally Muhoroni Youth.The 13-time league champions are currently placed 12th on the log with 29 points.Former players have urged the squad put the club first before thinking about money. If they lose, they don t seem to take it personally. During our time we really wanted to win and if we lost we were not ourselves until we corrected matters, one of the ex-internationals said. email print email print Mr Osumba admits that the fund can do better as much as it has registered notable progress. Kenya is erecting a wall on the porous Somalia border to minimise infiltration by terrorists.