Recently, we celebrated the opening of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers African office in Nairobi. What, really, is the origin and role of ICANN?In the beginning, Jon Postel (1943-1998), an American scientist from the University of California-Los Angeles, was ICANN. Before ICANN's incorporation in 1998, Postel was single-handedly doing what its more than 300 employees do today. ICANN is the global body mandated to manage the policy for the Internet. Of course the Internet was much smaller then, particularly from the 1960s to the 1980s, when Postel was handling the protocol numbering, the domain name system and the Internet number system.At the time, the Internet was simply a collection of about 20 university and military computers, which had to be given numbers and names in order to exchange information.Postel had one computer that kept a record of the number and name of each of the other computers. It was a simple file that had two columns, one for the computer s name and the other for its unique number.This basically formed what is now known technically as the root server. Today there are thirteen such root servers managed through ICANN.Any of the 20 computers wishing to talk to any other had to send a request to the root server for the direction and location of the remote computer, as defined in the simple two-column file.New computers wishing to join the network had to be manually entered into the main computer register file (root server), as kept and maintained by Postel. BIRTH OF DNSThis basically formed what is now technically known as the domain name system (DNS), which enables any new devices joining the Internet to be identified and reached by translating between their names and numbers.Today there are many domain names being managed through the ICANN system. ICANN labels them as either generic or country code names.Top-level, generic Internet names include .com for commercial enterprises, .net for network services, and .edu for educational institutions.Top-level country code names include .ke, .ug or .br for the Kenyan, Ugandan and Brazilian name spaces respectively. Each country sets up its own name registry to manage the lower-level codes, like .ac.ke for local academic institutions or .co.ke for local corporate organisations.Postel used to give each device or computer joining the original network a unique number. Today, ICANN manages this process through a regional approach. Five regions have been identified, namely North America, Europe, Asia, Latin America and Africa. Each region is then allocated a block of numbers to be distributed to Internet devices in each respective zone. AfriNIC manages the African zone, while ARIN, RIPE, APNIC &amp; LACNIC handle North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific and South America respectively.These organisations, known as regional Internet registries, allocate number resources, mainly to Internet and telecom companies in their regions. The telecom companies then assign these numbers to their client devices, enabling them to join the Internet.ICANN has a few other functions, such as incorporating general Internet users and governments into its policy ecosystem, but domain names and numbering systems form its core mandate.Sometimes the jargon around ICANN can get confusing, but what I have explained is the basic foundation for learning how ICANN works.Mr Walubengo is a lecturer at the Multimedia University of Kenya, Faculty of Computing and IT. Email: [email&#160;protected], Twitter: @jwalu email print email print Nairobi, home of many exciting things in ICT, has one of the widest gender gaps on Internet use.Kenya is lobbying against the planned agreement between US and 12 Asian states for fear of losingPeres will be buried next to Rabin, who was assassinated in 1995 by a Jewish extremist opposed to