Homeboyz went nine points clear on top of the National Sevens Series standings after their resounding 48-5 victory over Kenya Harlequin at Dala Sevens on Sunday at ASK Mamboleo show grounds, Kisumu.The victory saw Menengai Cream Soap sponsored Homeboyz bring their tally to 82 points while Quins are second with 73 points as the series heads into the penultimate leg at the inaugural Nanyuki Sevens this weekend.It was Homeboyz s second win of the season after they claimed victory at Prinsloo Sevens before reaching the final at Kabeberi and Driftwood Sevens. Homeboyz edged out Impala 24-19 to lift the Prinsloo Sevens title before losing to Impala Saracens and Quins with an identical 19-14 margin at Kabeberi and Driftwood Sevens finals respectively.Before reaching the finals at Driftwood and Dala, Quins beat Strathmore Leos 14-7 to finish third at Prinsloo but Quins would exact revenge 24-19 at the same stage at Kabeberi Sevens.Victory for Homeboyz in Nanyuki could see them clinch their maiden Series crown if other results go their way.Impala Saracens, who lost to Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) 39-5 in the Plate final at Dala Sevens, are third with 65 points as Strathmore Leos remained fourth position with 64 points after losing to Kabras Sugar 24-21 in the play-off for third place in Kisumu.Kabras Sugar round up the top five ranked teams with 55 points. KCB, Mwamba and the series Champions Nakuru are separated by 11 points margin. KCB have 49 points, Mwamba 44 and Nakuru comes in the 8th position with 38points.Homeboyz head coach Simon Odongo praised his charges for accomplishing their goals in the lake side city. I told the players to turn out especially in the final against Quins after we slipped against them at Driftwood final, Odongo said. We had to put our feet down firmly and it paid dividends with our fluid kick-off, restarts and breakdowns. Odongo also paid tribute to his new signings Cyprian Kuto, Tony Onyango, Humphrey Owuor and Charles Omondi all from Strathmore Leos for blending into the side quickly. They have given us depth in the squad and we hope that will be replicated onto the 15s seasons but first things first our desire is to win our first Series title, said Odongo.Homeboyz captain Leonard Mugaisi said they have learnt from their mistakes after losing at the Kabeberi and Driftwood Sevens cup finals. We focused on this tournament with the aim of winning it. I am glad to be part of the winning team, said Mugaisi.Quins skipper Felix Ayange rued missed opportunities at Dala and rallied his teammates ahead of Nanyuki Sevens. We just didn t come to the party in Dala... We just have to polish on what didn t work for us and come back stronger in Nanyuki, said Ayange. email print email print A light aircraft belonging to SPC Aviation College has crashed at Nairobi National Park.The Kenyatta National Hospital has recorded about 100 deliveries daily, nearly three times more