Most obese women prefer it that way as they are proud to maintain a full-rounded body shape, an analysis shows.Consumer Insight s Dama study indicated that many women preferred plump bodies. This is no surprise as corpulence is highly regarded in most African cultures.According to the latest Global Nutrition Report, the level of obesity in Kenya is now approaching 50 per cent among women in urban areas, aged between 19 and 49.Overall, it is estimated that 33 per cent of women are either overweight or obese, with 10 per cent of them the former.In both genders, 27 per cent of Kenyans are either overweight or obese with the percentage being significantly higher in women than men. Depiction of feminine beauty, across time and culture, emphasizes the physical traits indicative of health and fertility. The Consumer Insight s study, revealed that 55 per cent of women felt that eating healthy food, not exercising, was the key to good health, while at least 96 per cent of women considered themselves healthy. PREGNANCYThe GNR report released mid this year said women in Kenya are most affected by obesity due to pregnancy and slowing metabolism as they grow older. In Kenya, approximately one in two women living in urban areas and one in four living in rural areas is overweight or obese, as are approximately 15 per cent of adolescent girls (ages 15-18) living in urban areas and 8 per cent living in rural areas, the report said.Overweight and obesity are defined as abnormal or excessive fat accumulation that presents a risk to health. The basic population measure of obesity is the Body Mass Index (BMI), a person s weight (in kilos) divided by the square of his or her height (in metres). A person with a BMI of 30 or more is generally considered obese. A person with a BMI equal to or more than 25 is considered overweight. Ms Gladys Mugambi, Head Nutrition and Dietetics Unit at the Ministry of Health, says watching ones diet notwithstanding, the body needs exercise too, to function properly. She equally says women are the most affected by obesity as a result of the weight gained during and after pregnancy, as well as in advancing age, which slows down the metabolic rate. Most women gain weight during pregnancy thanks to uncontrolled cravings and the adage that they re eating for two hence they end up stuffing themselves unnecessarily, she notes. Then after delivery, they again pile on the weight because of overeating believing that they are doing so to produce enough breast milk for the baby. SPOT REDUCTIONObesity is the country s latest headache with health experts now worried that if not addressed immediately, the epidemic (as the GNR report declared it) is likely to grow to unmanageable levels, lead to increased risk for major diseases and strain an already delicate health system. Obesity-related conditions include heart disease, stroke, type 2 diabetes and certain types of cancer, all increasingly worrying leading causes of preventable death.Change in lifestyle and preferences have not helped matters, as experts associate the phenomenon with the growing middle-class and entry of fast-food chains in major cities around the country. Even as she encouraged women to strive to lose weight, Ms Mugambi turned the limelight on an emerging fad of women trying to lose weight on certain parts of their bodies and not others. We re currently seeing a trend where women seem to be obsessed with abdominal obesity, as measured by waist size. Excess body weight on some parts of the body such as the tummy is stigmatised while other body parts are glorified. So you see women fighting to lose weight around the belly only. This is unhealthy, she observes and cautions, Women need to tell the difference between losing weight and shaping up. If you are planning to lose weight you need to understand whether yours is a fat or fluid issue and, therefore, it is important that one gets an expert s advice on what you should be working on. She said when women work on their tummies only, they don t achieve the ideal health status. They just shape up. We recommend that one deals with the weight and the shape will follow suit. When you lose weight nicely using exercise and diet then you achieve both. They should not struggle with just one part, she said. Sometimes in just trying to exercise the tummy you loosen the muscles around there and after a short while the fat comes back, she added. email print email print Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump bickered and traded insults in a fiery US presidential debate Many residents in Rongai stranded in bus stops as the available matatus have hiked fares.