Thespians in Nakuru are questioning the ongoing Sh15 million renovation of the Nakuru Players Theatre that is funded by the county government.Several artists have said that the amount is too high and that it could have been put to better use by setting up a new, bigger hall and stage.The artists, who sought anonymity, said the work being done was of poor quality. As patriotic citizens, we believe this is a clear case where the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) officers should be invited, they said in a statement.However, Nakuru County Director of Culture and Social services Mrs Alice Gekonde says the Sh15 million would not only cover the theatre s renovation but also the construction of a recording studio.She said the renovations would be carried over into the next financial year in order to facilitate the setting up of the recording studio that will ensure artists record free of charge. We had put the Sh15 million for floor and roof repairs, lighting improvement and setting up a modern recording studio. You can t talk about the amount spent as the renovation is not yet complete, said Mrs Gekonde.She added that when the renovation commenced, they realised that the roof needed sound-proofing.Mrs Gekonde said by the end of September, the theatre would be complete.However, the artists said it was unreasonable to spend so much money on renovating an old building that could be condemned as unfit for human occupation. How can roofing, floor repairs, lights and seats replacement cost Sh15 million without expanding the theatre, which has a sitting capacity of 200 people? they asked.Nakuru Players Theatre chairman Francis Gachau refuted the claims, saying the amount was not enough to complete all the renovations and that more funds are expected next year to complete the renovation. The building is more than 60 years old and most of the materials were completely worn out. There is also need for a permanent fence, he said. email print email print For the rest of the six offences he will serve 10 years for each count. MKU scored 88 on physical and academic infrastructure.