Oxford University was recently ranked by the Times Higher Education rankings as the best university in the world. This was the first time in many years that the body had named a non-American school as the world s best.Routinely, the honour has been reserved for one or another of the leading American institutions, especially from the Ivy League (Harvard, Yale, Princeton and Colombia) or the West Coast s cream, like the University of California and Stanford. This is not surprising, considering that it is mainly the Americans who are particularly concerned about these things.Anyway, sweet as recognition is, Oxford, the oldest university in Britain, dating back to 1096 A.D., and its sister and main rival, Cambridge (1209), hardly need such nominations. They have proved their worth main centuries over.In any case, there is always an element of subjectivity about these ranking exercises. Ask a Mswahili like me and he is likely to tell you that arguably the best university in the world lies somewhere south of Tanga on the East African Coast! At that, a Mganda would jump up and exclaim: What about Makerere? Incidentally, although Makerere started its university career as a college of the University of London, I have a feeling that it could have as easily set off as an Oxford College. As you go through the portico of Makerere s Main Hall, you will notice that, opposite the London University crest on the right wall, there is the famous Dominus Illuminatio Mea (the Lord is my Enlightenment) crest of Oxford on the left. There must be a story behind that.Anyway, matters university have been strongly on my mind of late. It all started with my mention of the Sheikh Zubair hypothesis of Shakespeare s authorship last week. I had wanted to tell you of another theory about the same subject, but I lacked the space.The Baconian theory proposes that, since the real-life Shakespeare was manifestly poorly educated, with little Latin and no Greek , he could not have authored the stunning texts. Ergo (therefore), they must be the work of another person, probably the scholar and politician, Sir Francis Bacon, to which the theatre hack, Bill Shakespeare, was persuaded to attach his name.Ah, from learned sheikh to mere bacon ! The thought borders on blasphemy, and it had better be left at that. But Francis Bacon was a Cambridge man, you see, and his association with that august university would automatically lend authority and, especially, universality to what he said and wrote.For that is the very essence of a university: the authority of universality. Universities should be accepted and respected because they have and dispense a genuinely universal or, as we would say today, global view. The very name university (from Latin universitas, everywhereness ) implies that these institutions should draw their resources from the best everywhere in order to contribute credibly and with authority to knowledge everywhere.WANDERING SCHOLARSKnowledge and learning, as we know them today, were for a long time nurtured by closed institutions, like churches and monasteries. But as society grew more and more secular and the numbers of knowledge seekers increased, scholars who did not want to belong to the cloistered orders found themselves in need of alternative homes.After a period, in the early Middle Ages, when many such people operated individually as wandering scholars, they began setting up independent centres where they could share their knowledge and learning. They designated their centres universitas because they welcomed all and sundry, regardless of where they came from. What united them was the love of learning.Sheikh Ahmed Nabhany, the Kenyan poet and doyen of Kiswahili lexicography, has suggested that universities should be called ndaki in Kiswahili. This is from the action word kulaki , to receive or welcome a person in friendly fashion.Universities should warmly welcome every lover of learning, regardless of their nationality, gender, religion, social class, ethnicity or village of origin.This vital characteristic should be guarded and defended by any university that cares about its universal or global credibility. Indeed, you notice this on the campuses of any of those truly great universities: the internationality of their teaching and student populations.A Kenyan colleague was recently lamenting, as we often do, the huge brain drain of our academics, to Europe, America and, increasingly, Asia.Yes, Asia, too, is in the race. A professor whom I met at the Pwani University in Kilifi in 2014 asked me, seriously, if I would like to go and start a department of African literature somewhere in Beijing. I am still considering the invitation, but several friends of mine, like Christopher Wanjala, Kineene wa Mutiso and Said Ahmed Mohamed, have done stints in the Far East.The universities abroad make us these attractive offers because they understand the necessity of attracting and maintaining international communities for their credibility. We would do well to learn from them. With so many universities springing up all over our region, many of them bearing the names of the localities where they operate, there is a temptation for the locals to regard them as their property.But we cannot eat our university cake and have it. Either we have a truly global university with a national and international population and profile, or we content ourselves with a closed, inward-looking, district focused community school where we ignore the rest of the world and let the world forget us.It is exactly three years since my beloved sister, Naomi Lushere Shitemi, passed on. As I might have narrated elsewhere, my last close interactions with her were at the Rockefeller Study and Conference Center in Bellagio, Italy and, in 2009, at the BIGSAS (Bayreuth International Graduate School of African Studies) in Germany. Naomi was one of those remarkable international scholars, like Peter Amuka, Busolo Wegesa, James Adera Ogude, Joyce Nyairo, J.C. Odhiambo and my clansman, the late Stephen Lubega, who contributed and still contribute a lot to making Moi University the truly great, global Ndaki that it is, and will continue to be. Prof Bukenya is one of the leading scholars of English and Literature in East Africa. [email&#160;protected] email print email print The increasingly influential Mombasa governor is leading ODM leaders from Nyanza to mark theThe firearm, a G3 rifle, was stolen by the gangsters on a motorcycle after killing the officer in