Police in Isiolo are interrogating seven Al-Shabaab suspects arrested in Isiolo Town in the last two weeks.The suspects in custody, all aged below 35 years, are said to have been seized with suspicious materials linked to terror activities including compact disks on radicalisation. The suspects are believed to be recruiting young people in Isiolo to join Al-Shabaab. They were arrested in Isiolo Town on different dates. Isiolo County Commissioner George Natembeya Tuesday said police have requested for more time to continue with their investigations before the suspects are arraigned in court. One of the suspects arrested in Bula Pesa area is said to have facilitated recruitment and transportation of six young men who went missing last month. Three among the six young men were intercepted in Dagahaley refugee camp in Garissa County late last month while on their way to Somalia. They had travelled from Isiolo to Garissa on motorbikes. Three other youths from Tullo Roba area in Isiolo are still missing and are suspected to be on their way to join the Somali based Islamist group. We have leads that one of the suspects had radicalised and recruited the youth who went missing, he said. The administrator maintained that the returnees have been separated from their recruiter so as not to tamper with investigation. MISSING FRIENDS Those who returned are said to be helping authorities trace their missing friends. The arrest of the suspects follows a tip-off from informers. Residents informed us (police) on the suspects who seemed suspicious. They are being held at Isiolo Police Station as police continue with their investigations, said Mr Natembeya. Detectives are also following leads after parents reported their son s disappearance last month. Police have intensified crackdown on Al-Shabaab sympathisers and recruiters following reports of increased recruitment in the region. According to police reports, more than 30 youths have disappeared from their homes to join Al-Shabaab in Isiolo. email print email print Ms Tutui said the court would have given orders for immediate realisation of the rule. But the passport was not stamped, meaning he did not pass through the immigration desk.