Meru Governor Peter Munya has pushed for President Uhuru Kenyatta s re-election in the 2017 polls due to his good performance. Addressing worshippers at PCEA Mwendantu in Meru Town on Sunday, Mr Munya, however, said he would not join the Jubilee Party and that he would square it out with Deputy President William Ruto in the 2022 elections. More candidates will also vie for the presidency in 2022. It will not be I and him (Mr Ruto) alone, Mr Munya said amid applause.Although some local leaders had indicated their support for Mr Ruto to succeed President Kenyatta in 2022, if the Head of State wins a second term, Mr Munya said not all residents would back the DP. Since we are in a democratic country, it is Kenyans who will decide. I support President Uhuru Kenyatta. That is why I am campaigning for him, but in 2022 I will battle it out with his deputy, Mr Munya said.He went on: That is the reason I won t join the Jubilee Party as it is meant to help him (Mr Ruto) ascend to the presidency. NEW PARTY LAWSHe warned that it would be difficult for those joining Jubilee to leave due to recent changes in the law. It will be like what people used to say in the past about going to Mombasa, that it is easier to go [there] but hard to leave. Once you board [the] Jubilee bus, the door closes, Mr Munya said.The Meru governor, who has been a thorn in the flesh of the Jubilee administration due to his stand on various issues, insisted he would seek re-election on a PNU ticket thoughe Jubilee leaders have said it was among the parties that were dissolved.Mr Munya named roads, street lighting and planned mega dams as some of the things President Kenyatta had done for the Meru people. The President should be rewarded for his good work so that he can serve for 10 years. I should also be re-elected as I have done well so as to continue with my work. The Constitution only allows governors to serve for 10 years and after that I will go for [the] presidency, he said.ACHIEVEMENTSHe also cited the Meru County government s achievements in agriculture, water, cooperative and savings societies, infrastructure and cleaning up towns and wondered why locals would want to deny him a second term.The governor questioned why his ally-turned-foe Kiraitu Murungi was interested in the Meru governor's seat for just one term. Which agenda do you have for just one term? Why should you (residents) elect a person with no experience in running a county government and waste one year trying to get direction? he asked.Mr Munya said he was being fought for firmly opposing the grabbing of public land.He announced that the refurbishment of the Kinoru Stadium for Sh200 million would be completed in the next three months after the previous contractor was replaced for working too slowly.A master plan for the fast-growing Meru Town was also ready and would be launched soon , he said.A modern sewerage plant and dumpsite, he said, would be built on the Meru-Tharaka-Nithi boundary and that it would be used to manufacture fertilizer and produce clean (recycled) water for irrigation. email print email print Mr Esipisu described Mr Munya s understanding of foreign relations as at best ill informed . The Court of Appeal judge said he is excited over his nomination as the new Chief Justice. President Kenyatta is expected to send Justice Maraga&#039;s name to Parliament for approval.