The Njuri Ncheke Council of Elders want school heads in Meru County to submit lists of truant pupils to help improve education standards.Speaking at the Nchiru shrine on Saturday, Njuri Ncheke Chairman Linus Kathera said the elders want to deal with parents who do not take their children to school.Mr Kathera said there was a high number of children, especially boys, who are not attending school as required.He said Njuri Ncheke chairmen in every location will be required to get lists of pupils who fail to go to school from headteachers for action. We have realised that several schools in Meru have low numbers of boys compared to girls. A number of children are also dropping out of school. The council resolved that education must be taken seriously by all Meru people. We are asking school heads to submit a list of pupils who do not go to school so that we can follow up, Mr Kathera said.He said elders are ready to do away with chairmen who do not implement the directive in their jurisdictions. We also want government officials and other stakeholders to put emphasis on the issue of truancy. "Any (Njuri Ncheke) chairman who is given a list of dropouts and doesn t take action will be demoted. We don t want a chairman who doesn t support education, he said.PROFESSIONALS JOIN ELDERS' COUNCILThe chairman noted that they have initiated several professionals into Njuri Ncheke, thus giving the council authority to address educational matters.Cases of truancy among primary school pupils are high in miraa-growing areas as boys prefer the well-paying jobs in the farms to schooling.Mr Kathera spoke as the elders announced that they will meet next month to endorse the council's first written constitution.In July more than 5,000 elders met at the Nchiru Shrine to unveil the constitution outlining the leadership structure, term of leadership, leadership code and financial management.They also entered an accord that seeks to depoliticise the council. We will meet on October 15 to ratify the Njuri Ncheke Constitution and endorse the current leadership. This is a key milestone in the council of elders because it will help end leadership wrangles. Njuri Ncheke leaders will hold office for a term of 10 years, Njuri Ncheke Secretary-General Josphat Murangiri said.The Njuri Ncheke constitution and accord were developed by a team led by former head of the civil service Francis Muthaura who is also the council s patron. email print email print The third challenge Justice Maraga will face is how to deal with the case backlogs. Government proposes that only full professors and distinguished administrators should hold the