Fresh from his sudden death play off victory in the Karen Challenge at Karen Country Club two weeks ago, Limuru s John Karichu is probably the man to watch this weekend as some of the country s leading amateurs travel to Kericho for the annual Tea Fields Trophy. I have played there before and I am familiar with the course though I will be able to asses my game after playing a practise round, said Karichu, who beat Kenya Amateur Matchplay Champion Sujan Shah of Sigona in the second hole of a sudden death play off at Karen, to win his first Golfer Of The Year (Goty) title this season.Shah is not travelling to Kericho but Karichu s club-mate John Kariuki, who finished third at Karen, is in the Tea Fields draw at the par 70 Kericho course and so are current Goty leader Kenneth Bollo of Royal, Railway s Alfred Nandwa and Muthaiga s Jeff Kubwa - who are expected to provide the challenge in the two-day event.It s a 36-hole event as usual with the first round on Saturday set for 7.40am followed by the second round on Sunday. Back in Nairobi, the Rose Naliaka Academy girls are all set to defend the Nancy Millar Trophy which is marking its 70th year at Karen Country Club this weekend. Its 54-hole tournament which has attracted 52 pairs or 104 players with each club fielding four players in the foursomes event. Last year, Serah Khanyereri, Aisha Duba, Ashley Awuor and Loise Akinyi posted a total of 215 points to win by three points from Muthaiga s Rachna Patel, Naomi Wafula, Savina Madhani and Christina Anderson 212 points. STIMA SACCOAt the par 72 Thika Sports Club, a field of 180 players was drawn for the inaugural Stima Sacco tournament. Those drawn include the club s low handicap golfers Patrick Kingori, Dunca Ndungu, Peter Nganga, David Matano and David Kuria. They will be battling it out with some of the on-form middle handicappers such as John Njoroge, Samuel Njiru, John Thaairu, Peter Ruku, and S.N. Nganga among many others. Meanwhile, it will be a big day on Sunday at Ndumberi Golf Club, the only golf course in the country to have been started by Kenyans. Popularly known as St Andrews , Ndumberi will host the annual Nginyo Kariuki Cup being sponsored by Nginyo Investments, courtesy of the veteran Kenyan professional Lawrence Nginyo Kariuki who is also the patron of the club and one of the founders of the Ndumberi course in 1963. Kariuki, who has over the years fought many battles including law court cases to save the course from land grabbers, has invited a number of guests and past chairmen of the club. email print email print Mr Odinga said his party is not keen on going into the polls as a coalition. The first batch of doctors will be promoted by October 7.