The Kenya Film Classification Board (KFCB) has recommended that the broadcasting licences of media houses that violate free-to-air TV and radio rules be revoked. KFCB chief executive Ezekiel Mutua also wants law enforcement agencies to impose cash fines on service providers who breach the programming code that took effect last July.The code, among other rules, requires broadcasters to air at least 40 per cent local content within the first year of licensing.Broadcasters who violate the rules are liable to a penalty ranging between Sh500,000 to 0.2 per cent of their gross earnings.The Communications Authority (CA) says the regulations are intended to protect the "interests of consumers, particularly children and minors from inappropriate content during the watershed period".The watershed period runs from 5am to 10pm and the code requires radio and TV stations to air programmes that are appropriate for family audiences during that time.Where there is extreme violation of the code, such as continuous airing of unrated adult content during the day, the KFCB will sue the broadcasters, Mr Mutua said. We cooperate with the Communications Authority (CA), which issues licences. We can make recommendations for CA to revoke licenses or impose fines on media houses that are non-compliant, said Mr Mutua. The law under CAP 222 also gives KFCB the mandate to take media houses to court, so they (media) should not push us. Mr Mutua was speaking during the signing of an agreement with the Digital Broadcasters Association (DBA) at his office in Nairobi. The programming code stipulates that broadcast content should be properly rated and classified in compliance with the watershed period as provided under the Kenya Information and Communication Act. Moral terror is worse than that of the gun. We are not trying to prescribe morality, but media [have] the power to shape the society, he said.Only 45 media houses in the country have complied with the code s requirements. Broadcasters are required to display the KFCB s classification symbol and voice over at the beginning of every programme. email print email print Kenya is lobbying against the planned agreement between US and 12 Asian states for fear of losingPeres will be buried next to Rabin, who was assassinated in 1995 by a Jewish extremist opposed to