Allies of Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang ula on Wednesday declared that he will not apologise over allegations that he abused Cord principal Raila Odinga.This came as sources within the Opposition coalition said that Mr Wetang ula was uncomfortable with the possibility of Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi teaming up with Cord in the lead-up to the next elections.Ford-K MPs Chris Wamalwa (Kiminini) and Ferdinand Wanyonyi (Kwanza) argued that the demand by the Luo council of elders for the Bungoma senator to apologise amounted to belittling their leaders, and told them to forget about the apology.They were reacting to demands by the council s chairman Willis Otondi and secretary Owino Nyady that Mr Wetang ula apologises for likening the former Prime Minister to a barren woman through a Bukusu idiom, which calls on a man who fails to impregnate a woman to explore other options.Speaking in Kisumu on Monday, the elders demanded an apology from the Ford-K leader for disparaging Mr Odinga . What the Cord co-principal said was abusive. Mr Wetang ula owes us an apology as a community, said Mr Otondi.A team of ODM MPs also accused the Ford-K leader of insulting their leader and warned that it could affect their relations in Cord.But speaking on Wednesday at Kimimini market in Kitale, Mr Wamalwa told the council to keep off Cord politics and focus on its advisory role. The council should not expect an apology from Senator Wetang ula just because they mistook his use of figurative language for an abuse. He did not abuse him at all as alleged, he said.BEEN SILENTMr Wanyonyi, who is the Trans Nzoia Ford-Kenya chairman, wondered why the council has in the past been silent when Mr Odinga has been known for the use of figurative language in his speeches. The Bukusu culture is full of sayings and proverbs that were put in place by our forefathers just like any other community. The use of the sayings by leaders in their addresses should not be taken as abuse, said Mr Wanyonyi.Mr Odinga in an interview with a local TV station said he would not to respond to the remarks by his co-principal, noting they had other important issues to discuss. I will not respond to that, he said.The remarks were made in the context of the hot debate in the coalition surrounding the nomination of a presidential candidate to face President Uhuru Kenyatta. Mr Odinga, Mr Wetang ula and their Wiper Party counterpart Kalonzo Musyoka are all seeking the coalition s mandate to be its flag bearer in the next elections.Talks are also at an advances stage to bring on board ANC s Musalia Mudavadi in a super alliance as the opposition seeks to rally massive support in bid to unseat President Kenyatta. Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar, who is Wiper secretary-general confirmed on Tuesday that Mr Mudavadi will join Cord and fight for the presidential ticket alongside the three principals I can confirm to you that Mudavadi among other opposition chiefs are lined up for a grand entry into the coalition to strengthen our quest to take power in 2017, he said on phone.WAS UNCOMFORTABLEHowever, sources within Cord said Mr Wetang ula was uncomfortable with the entry of Mr Mudavadi since it could water down his strength in the coalition. But Ford-K organising-secretary and aide to the party leader Chris Mandu denied the allegations and said Mr Mudavadi was welcome.ANC officials led by Western Regional coordinator David Malala said the new alliance will make sense if Mr Mudavadi will be given the chance to lead. Mr Malala said Mr Mudavadi is the only person who can wrestle power from President Kenyatta. We will enter into a super alliance if Mudavadi is made the flag bearer. Anything less than that we will walk away, he said.According to him, the alliance will be a super coalition that can be able to make change in the landscape of the politics of Kenya. We want to take the leadership of this Country and Mudavadi is better placed because of his vast experience in politics, he said.His sentiments were shared by Makhiakalo Ward Representative Cleophas Malala and his nominated counterpart Alex Khamasi who said Mudavadi is a neutral person and fit to lead the alliance. Reports by Philip Bwayo, Justus Ochieng and Linet Wafula email print email print Mr Tom Cheruiyot Biegon states that Justice Maraga erroneously reduced the murder charge againstThe airline has released advance extracts of its financial results in an attempt to counter a