I turned 39 this week. I need a commendation. My biggest triumph is surviving my 30s without succumbing to yoga. I have resisted the urge to succumb to this Zen craze and drinking chamomile tea before bed, because apparently it soothes your soul and makes you have happy dreams. And balances your chi. I turned 39 near water, in Lamu, at a quiet resort with a few souls and a breeze and birds with long beaks. I woke up early on my birthday and struggled to write and when the words refused to come, I sat there and thought about the highlights of my 30s. Here they are (and some lessons learnt):Losing my motherI still think of her. Sometimes I think of her when I lose sleep at 2am. Sometimes I can go a good five days without thinking of her once, then in the middle of traffic jam, on a hot day, a sharp and searing memory of her comes through. Sometimes I think of her when she had healthy weight and when she cooked traditional veggies; when she had her signature cheekiness and brilliant humour and irrepressible hyperbole. She would call me baba, after her own father who loved her dearly. (She only called me that when she wanted Mpesa. How manipulative!) There are days when my memory of her is raw.Days when I succumb to silent bursts of unexpected tears. I lost her smack in my mid-30s and it continues to define the last half of my third decade.Watching my kids get bornYou get to the delivery room and you watch them check in. I have been in theatre twice. (Not to give birth, but to witness this divine occasion.) It s a special unparalleled moment watching your child get born. Then you watch them grow and they test you as a man and as a father. You question everything, but mostly you question your competence as a parent. And as a man. And you worry. Constantly. You worry about the hurt that awaits them in the real cold world where people don t see them as your child. And you wish you could avert that, but you can t because it s when they hurt that they grow.Nobody cares about your lifeYes. I have learnt that you can t live your life pleasing people. Nobody cares about your life that much. Inherently, humans are selfish, we think of ourselves first, or what it all means to us. I have learnt that there is a danger in trying to fit in a box and that if you step out of that box you will be seen as odd.But odd isn t bad. If odd works for you, then be odd because sooner than later, odd will be normal and you will normal and people will have to accept you for that. Maybe you are a square peg; you have no business fitting into that circle.GuacamoleI discovered avocados late in my 30s. Do this: squeeze lemon in guacamole and eat it with chicken or rice or vegetables or beans or whatever. I m certain that guacamole will see me through my 40s. That and of course, chapos.Jumping off a planeVertigo is my Achilles heels. If I stand at the edge of a tall building and look down, I feel like pissing in my pants. Last year I jumped off a plane in South Coast. It went high up until earth looked like a bad drawing and then I jumped off with another man strapped on my back. Before I jumped I thought I would die of fright. I asked myself, Why am I doing these mzungu things, again? I was sick like a dog when my feet touched the ground, but I learnt one thing, there is no fear that can t be conquered.PlansYou don t have to have a plan for everything. Forget people who are always rubbing their long-term plans in your nose. Sometimes you just have to live.MoneyIt s never enough. It can t be enough. You make it and you lose it. I have learnt not to look at who is making how much. The city is a haven of smoke screens; flashy men and women drowning in loans, sustaining a lifestyle that you might admire. It s easy to imagine that people are doing well when you meet them driving their cars and eating salmon at Sunday brunch. I have learnt not to take things a face value. Nothing is what it seems. Stay on your lane. Run your race. Finish in your time.Find time to readBecause you grow dumber each time you don t read. Not reading is like living your whole life in a narrow corridor without light.Be kindBecause there is never any reason to pass up on common decency.ObamaWho would have thought we would live to see a black man rule the free world? Hell, who would have thought our own cousin would?GodI don t go to church. I m not proud of that. Sometimes I pray. Most times I forget to pray. But God continues to be patient with me and he shows his hand often in things that he lets me touch. He s gracious and generous and kind to me. And he rocks. He rocks daily. He rocks all the time. He rocks because he doesn t have to be nice to me, but he is. I m his lost sheep and right this moment I know he s reading this column (right after reading The Plain Truth) and shaking his head and smiling. Because our Lord is also a funny God. email print email print But his speech was interrupted by the mourners. The amount was recovered from a bank account of the deputy governor&#039;s bodyguard, police said.