Once a guy realises he s ready to marry, he needs to start looking for a wife rather than a girlfriend. But how do you tell the difference? And why does it matter?It matters because girlfriends just want to have fun. To play the field for all it s worth. They think commitment s a dirty word, and have no intention of getting married anytime soon. They re great fun, of course. But not if you re ready to settle down.Fortunately, they re very easy to spot, because when they party they like to strut their stuff. The highest heels, shortest skirts, deepest necklines, barest midriffs and sexiest lingerie. So if you re ready to marry, choose the girl who s wearing something more demure.A girlfriend will dance all night, and is up for anything you can imagine. But she ll never be loyal. Why should she be? That s for later. So she ll laugh and flirt with your friends, and go with anyone who catches her eye.PAST IT ALLGirlfriends expect their boyfriends to know how they re feeling. So they drop hints. Or sulk. But the girl who s ready to marry has figured out that men can t read minds. So she says what she s thinking.Girlfriends expect men to pay for absolutely everything or are belligerently independent. And the girl who s ready to marry does still like her boyfriend to pay for their dates. But she ll also pay for a few things herself. Showing that she s ready to start thinking like a team.Girlfriends are hard to please, endlessly craving something new, and go out to get wasted. And are forever updating their Facebook status. So choose the girl who s grown out of all that. Who prefers to drink in moderation. And only gets around to Facebook when she happens to be online.Girlfriends watch junk TV and mostly talk about trivia. And a girl who s ready to marry will have her guilty pleasures too. But she ll also spend lots of time reading. She ll want more intellectual conversations. And always be widening her horizons. Meeting people and exploring possibilities. She s passionate and driven. Girlfriends haven t found their purpose yet, and are still looking to find their way in the world.Girlfriends eat salads, but that s mostly about creating an image of healthy living. You need a girl who ll sit down and have a burger and chips with you, without any fuss. Someone who s not afraid to enjoy her food.So marry a woman who eats well, and spends more on food than on clothes. She ll be lots more fun - and loyal. But she won t have entirely forgotten all her crazy times as a girlfriend. And will still be a wildcat between the sheets. And play video games. And enjoy walking around the house naked. Because she s learned to be mature and confident. And has lost all her youthful insecurities.Girlfriends are great when you re single. But a good wife s far better, and worth much more than her weight in gold. email print email print The Budalang&#039;i MP will rebrand the Labour Party of Kenya, touted as the Third Force. The panel found that the judge had allocated himself a file without the duty judge&#039;s knowledge.