Sports Cabinet Secretary Hassan Wario can sigh with relief after President Uhuru Kenyatta said he had no substantive comment to make over a communication from the International Olympic Committee on the Rio mess.In a statement by State House spokesperson Manoah Esipisu, on Sunday, President Kenyatta said the matter was being handled the way it should be. The matter of integrity is so well canvassed in the Olympic Charter, President Kenyatta said.Mr Kenyatta said he had noted communication from the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and said that Dr Wario is driving the agenda forward. The International Olympic Committee (IOC) had requested for a meeting with the government to talk about the disbandment of the National Olympic Committee of Kenya (NOCK).IOC said failure, it would impose sanctions against Kenya insisting that NOCK officers implicated in the saga should be given a fair hearing. It is still unclear at this stage on which basis, if any, these actions have been taken against your NOC. However, they obviously constitute undue interference of government authorities in the powers and responsibilities of your NOC, which is a non-government, autonomous and legally independent entity whose primary existence and jurisdiction (and right to call it a National Olympic Committee ) are derived from its recognition by the IOC, in accordance with the Olympic Charter, IOC said in its letter.(READ: IOC calls for dialogue as Kenyan crisis deepens)But President Kenyatta said: So, it is clear that government s approach is consistent with, and in support of the IOC s own stand in these matters. A resolution of the matter will have to be seen in that context. Already, NOCK secretary FK Paul and assistant treasurer Stephen Soi have been arraigned in court on charges of missing kits and financial issues during the Rio Olympics last month. NOCK chairman Kipchoge Keino, his assistant Pius Ochieng and Treasurer Fridah Shiroya have been questioned by police as well. email print email print Magistrate releases three officials on Sh200,000 bond each. Ms Tutui said the court would have given orders for immediate realisation of the rule. But the passport was not stamped, meaning he did not pass through the immigration desk.