Navrang Fine Arts Foundation is set to take us on a unique journey exploring the intricacies of an universal rhythm. Taal Yatra an Odyssey led by India s leading percussionist Padamshree Pandit Suresh Talwalkar and featuring a galaxy of musicians and dancers will grace our stage at the Oshwal Auditorium Westlands on October 15.The audience will be entertained with the tabla maestro s traditional and classical compositions blended with dance, instrumental and Tabla solo expositions. This, I understand, is Indian classical music in its pure form presented in a modern way as it integrates the sounds of western drums and other percussion instruments.Navrang enjoys a unique reputation of bringing our way outstanding expositions featuring masters of the art. The foundation is spearheaded by our own musicians of repute. Vocalist Praful Varsani, musicians Ashwin Kothari and Kirit Pattni and dancer and choreographer Kamini Thakkar have always lived up to our expectations.EARLY BOOKINGEarly booking is strongly advised. Tickets are available at Shah Chemists, ground floor Sarit Centre and for further information readers can also call Navrang on 0738 251 989.And last Saturday evening, Kenbharti Centre s presentation of Kenya Has Got Talent-II at the Oshwal Centre Auditorium was a winner all the way. The presentation excelled in projecting Kenya s fresh talent in performing arts with a touch of brain teasing acts and above all showcased a true Kenyan spirit transcending ethnic, racial cultural and religious borders. A clap happy full house audience lead by the chief guest Dr Manu Chandaria, encouraged the young and talented Kenyans with a standing ovation. The organisers involved the audience in interesting know your song competitions .Kenbharti Centre is a nonprofit making organisation known for its cultura and philanthropic activities. The Centre and its Chairman, radio and stage personality Abhijeet Gupta, deserve congratulations. Allaudin Qureshi [email&#160;protected] email print email print Kenyan Indians have been urged to register online to secure entry passes to the venue and be part of this welcome party. The AfDB and the national government are funding this Sh6.1 billion project.The Interior Cabinet secretary said politicians who stormed the campus should either apologise or