Her parents named her Nyokabi but now she is known as Cinderella. When you do the kind of work she does, she says, you have to find a way to distance yourself from it. Adopting a split personality is Cinderella s way of coping. She gets to be one person during the day and another when she meets her clients at night.Cinderella is a sex worker. We meet on a Saturday afternoon at a restaurant in Parklands, Nairobi. She is curvy with long, permed hair and an easy smile. In her flowing sun dress, she easily passes for a 28-year-old. But she is 42, and she has been a sex worker for 25 years.Cinderella was 17 when she was first sexually assaulted. A year earlier, peer pressure had lured her from high school into bars and eventually, onto the streets. On the night she was abused, she had met a client at a bar and gone to a hotel room. As soon asthey got there, he made it known that he did not intend to pay for her services. Then he overpowered her and had his way with her. I felt very violated, Cinderella remembers. She couldn t distance herself from this as she usually did after she had sex with clients. For a while, she was an emotional wreck. She thought she wouldn t be able to survive it but as the days went by, she realised that life was still moving.'COULD NOT LET MY WORLD END' My world couldn t end. I couldn t let it. My family had cut me off at this point, this was my job now. So eventually, I pushed (the assault) to the back of my mind and got back on the job, she says.After some thought, she continues: I know how it sounds. How can I feel violated and yet I was in that hotel room to have sex? People imagine that as long as you are selling sex, then the need for consent is withdrawn. It shouldn t be like that. Rape is rape. After this first incident, she was sexually assaulted at least a dozen times each year for the next decade. Because she was living outside the law, she never once thought of seeking protection from it. In fact, about a quarter of the men who had unconsented sex with her were policemen who caught her selling her services. You know how seeing a man in uniform makes you feel safe? This isn t the case when you are a sex worker. I made this mistake once. A policeman solicited for my services once and convinced me to follow him to the police camp. Once there, he turned into an animal. He handcuffed me and raped me and then invited his colleagues to have their turn, she says.The police force is also quite resistant to the idea of a sex worker being violated. Cinderella knows of one colleague who attempted to report a rape incident. The policeman looked at us and asked, tangu lini malaya akarape-iwa? (Since when do prostitutes get raped?) That was the end of it. I believe that everyone has a right to say no, and that any unconsented sex is rape. It shouldn t matter how the victim came to be there, Cinderella says. But she also knows that many people, not just policemen, do not share her view.After 10 years of suffering, Cinderella changed her business location from the streets to bars in order to stay safer. I started taking bartending jobs especially in smaller, more intimate bars from where I started growing a client base. Now I see pretty much the same group of men. The instances of violence are much less, she says.Does time heal the emotional turmoil of repeated rape experiences? It doesn t really go away. You can push it to the back of your mind but it will always be there. There are days that these feelings surface. On those days, you just have to find a way to drown them, she says. ***NO PLACE TO HIDESome ladies of the night, like Cinderella, find ways to protect themselves. Others seek protection from pimps. These men take them under their wing, help them market their services and protect them from unpleasant clients. A pimp chooses the clients for you and offers you protection from them, says Priscilla, 22. But there is no one to protect you from him. Priscilla and nine other girls the same age as her live in a big house in Kilimani, Nairobi. Some of them are college students by day. Their pimp pays for the house and their expenses while a matron, who is slightly older than them, looks after the girls. Their pimp is a 45-year-old family man. He has had sex with all the girls in the house, whether they want it or not.The pimp is also the owner of their consent. If a client pays him enough, then he will let the client do things to you that you don t want to do, she says. To stay sane , Priscilla drinks and sometimes uses mild drugs as a form of escape.Still, Priscilla prefers to cast her lot with a pimp because it s hard out there in the streets. I know more than five girls who have died at the hands of clients, she says. They were strangled, stabbed or gang-raped. This is better. And the money isn t that bad. I make Sh3,000 a night for up to five nights a week, she says.When I ask why she doesn t leave the trade altogether for another that is perhaps less emotionally and physically draining, Priscilla says she does not think that there is anything wrong with her choice of profession. Sex work is work. I am proud of it, she says emphatically.She is also just as clear on her view of rape, consent and prostitution: We make the mistake of assuming that rape is about sex. It isn t. When a policeman or a pimp rapes a sex worker, it isn t about sex. It is about anger and control. Pimps rape the girls who work for them to put them in their place to control them. Only when we stop thinking about rape in a sexual context can we understand the concept of sexual violence against a sex worker, she says. ***LET S DO THE MATHCarolyne Njoroge, a bubbly, pleasant, 28-year-old sex worker has a thing for numbers. She uses statistics in her day-to-day life. She believes that an analysis of the data will solve most of the problems that plague the Kenyan sex industry.This mother of two has been a sex worker for 13 years. In that time, she has witnessed and has been on the receiving end of countless instances of sexual assault. Rape by clients, city council askaris demanding to be bribed through sex, being indecently touched by conductors in matatus because they know she is a sex worker and think that she will not mind anyway she has seen it all. The assault and the stigma from society takes a toll on your emotions. I have lost a lot of friends to suicide. I, however, can t give up. I have two children to raise, she says.Sex workers, she says, are the most raped class of women. It is so common that they have even coined a name for men who rape sex workers. We call them wezi wa kuma, she says with an uncomfortable chuckle. Then she looks away to hide the emotion underneath.When the Kenya Sex Workers Association (KESWA) was constituted in 2011, Carolyne was appointed programmes coordinator. There is strength in numbers, she says.Caroline educates her colleagues on their human rights, to teach them to say no to sexual violence at work. There has been progress but she feels that it isn t enough. In her view, life would be so much better for everyone if prostitution was decriminalised. Think about how much money the government would be earning if sex work was decriminalised and made taxable. In 2012, a KESWA survey showed that Nairobi has approximately 50,000 sex workers. The average earnings of a sex worker in downtown Nairobi that is Kirinyaga Road, Latema Road and parts of Tom Mboya Street, for instance is Sh5,000 on a busy night. This makes Sh150,000 a month per sex worker. Do the math, she says.The ideal situation for Caroline is to pay taxes which then gives her the power to say no and be heard, and to demand safer sexual practices. Cinderella agrees that this would be ideal but she is doubtful that it will be that easy to erase the assumption many people make, which is that when you sell sex for a living, you assume the risk of rape. email print email print When you sell sex you assume the risk of rape so says society. Ms Tutui said the court would have given orders for immediate realisation of the rule. But the passport was not stamped, meaning he did not pass through the immigration desk.