Chris and I spend the next two hours in our briefing session, with me catching him up on what we have done so far as a company. We keep our conversation strictly business, and manage to be completely civil about it. Wow, that s quite a lot that s happened in the two years I have been away, he says, putting his pen down. Then he pushes his notebook away and taps at his tablet, setting it back to its home screen. Shall we take a small break now? I nod. And you can tell me what s been happening with you, Liz. How have you been? I ve been good, I say. Then I keep quiet. I am not sure if he is asking as a friend although friend is hardly what I would call someone who has not even sent me a text message in two years to see how I am doing or if he is asking as more than just a friend. That s very, eh, forthcoming, he laughs, finally, after an awkward silence. I don t know what else to say, I smile tightly. How have you been? I ve been well, he says. My eye subconsciously slides towards his wedding ring finger it s empty. He always wore his wedding band when I knew him before, even when things were really difficult with his wife and he was not sure whether he wanted to stay married. People trust the head of a company more when he s married, so I wear my ring, he used to tell me. Even if you are a man? I thought that only applied to women, I remember quipping the first time he told me that, after I asked him why he was still wearing it if he was on the verge of getting a divorce. Especially if you are a man, he had said. Single women come across as driven and not likely to be distracted by marriage drama but men well a married man looks focused and capable of leading. He had grinned at that, and leaned over to rub my cheek I remember it all so clearly to reassure me. Now I know he was just playing a game. Saying words for the sake of saying them when in reality, the ring was a symbol that he was not ready to leave his wife. I m not married anymore, he says softly. My eyes revert to his, and my face burns with embarrassment; clearly he s seen me looking. When we went away we discovered that we were just not compatible. Oh I guess that s just the way the cookie crumbles sometimes. Wow, would you look at the time? Is it lunchtime already? I am trying to get away from discussing complicated topics for now. I missed you, you know, he continues. I stare determinedly at the ground beneath my feet, wondering if it would perhaps do me the kindness of opening up and taking me away from this disturbing conversation. Well, I guess we had a good friendship. It was easy to miss, Oh my. What a totally lame thing to say. I was going for objective but friendly, but that that was just awful.Chris leans back in his chair and stares intensely at me. Finally, I can t take it anymore. I have to tell him what s on my mind. Listen, I m going to be completely honest here, and forgive me for it, but I have to say this, I say. I am glad you re back, but I don t want to go down the road we went down again. I will keep it professional and above board, and I hope you can be the same too. Are you seeing anyone? he leans forward, a cheeky smirk on his face. Chris! I throw my arms in the air and stand up. That s it. I think this meeting is over. It was a serious question, Liz, he says. A bead of sweat escapes my brow. I was wondering if-, No, don t wonder, I say, hoping he can see the pleading in my eyes. Let s not. Not ever. And if you ll excuse me, I have a stack of things I need to go do. In my office. Right now. And then I run-walk my way to the door. Louise gives me a concerned glance as I walk quickly past her desk, but I don t pay her attention. What I need is time to think, alone, in my office; how am I going to work with Chris if this is how he starts our first meeting? email print email print The Judicial Service Commission (JSC) has picked Court of Appeal Judge David Maraga for the post More officers have been deployed to the area to carry out air and ground surveillance.