Manchester. Jose Mourinho may leave Wayne Rooney out of Manchester United s starting side for the second match in a row when they face Ukrainian side Zorya Luhansk in the Europa League today.Rooney was on the bench for United s weekend game with Premier League champions Leicester City and didn t get on until very late in the game as Mourinho s side showed their best form of the season in a superb 4-1 win.That led to huge speculation over whether Rooney has a future under Mourinho at United, where he made his club debut, scoring a hat-trick in a 6-2 Champions League win over Fenerbahce, exactly 12 years ago on Wednesday. Wayne Rooney is selected (in the squad). I did not decide yet if I start with him, Mourinho said on Wednesday ahead of Thursday s match at Old Trafford. He didn t train yesterday (Tuesday), he did just a little bit of the session on Monday, the United manager added. He had a back problem. So today was the first time he had a training session with the other players and today it was a training session where the intensity and complexity is obviously reduced because we have a game tomorrow. So I was completely convinced of playing him tomorrow from the beginning with this situation in the last couple of days, but I am not sure if I do that because of the situation you (the media) created with him. He can t afford to have a performance that is not really good, the Portuguese boss explained. Because I am here to protect him and not to put him in difficult situations, I have to analyse whether the best thing for him is to start the game if he is not totally ready for it. So I am going to discuss that with him and the medical staff and decide whether he starts or is on the bench. Meanwhile, another senior United player appears to have a far more rosy future at Old Trafford, with Juan Mata having convinced Mourinho that he has an important role to play with the club.The Spanish playmaker was a 37.1 million ($48.2 million, 43 million euros) signing by David Moyes from Mourinho s Chelsea in January 2014. (AFP)