It was quite an eventful week. What with JPM s Isles speeches still ringing in our ears. Supporters and critics alike aired sharp opposing views. So, opinion was divided, portending a divided nation. Isles matters had better be left to Zanzibaris. They know how to sort them out.All in all, every citizen matters, no? When it comes to national development, no soul should be left behind. We re all children of this beautiful country. This is regardless of one s political affiliation, belief, colour or origin. In the middle of all this political gymnastics, our children Standard Seven pupils (LY) were writing their final examinations. According to official reports, over 800,000 pupils sat for this year s national Standard Seven exams.These are young souls, most of them aged between 11 and 16. Having attempted the questions a rough, merciless world awaits over a half of them. It s no secret that less than 400,000 will find a place in some public and private secondary school.The rest will join our farming compatriots. There are those who will turn into bodaboda taxi drivers. Some will join those who work as house helps. Every urban centre should be prepared to receive its share of hawkers. The picture is grim but that s what it is.UN Population Fund estimates (November 2014) that the global population of young people between the ages of 10 and 24 has hit 1.8 billion. Most of them venture into the world where they have to grapple with poverty, inequality, and human rights violations all these constraining their personal and collective potential.The future is full of uncertainties. Without deliberate efforts to try and break intergenerational poverty, the world is doomed. No one will be safe. We have seen it a number of times waves of economic refugees keep hitting developed countries. This will continue for years to come. What other evidence do we need than the thousands of people dying in the Mediterranean Sea in their attempts to reach Europe?Investment is needed. We must invest in health so that our society is free from diseases in a bid to improve our productivity. We must invest in education so that all will acquire some useful skills that would help people earn a more decent living. Day-dreaming?Back to the figures in Tanzania. In November, some 400,000 students will complete their Ordinary Level education. Maybe only a half of these will find a place in the high school secondary education. Slightly over a 100,000 will write their A-Level exams. Out of these, only about a half will get a slot in university and college.Cumulatively, Tanzania produces nearly a million young people annually whose aspirations and dreams may never be realised. This is why we need peace. Yet, we cannot have peace if we don t do justice. The two are inseparable.Cheers!