They say seeing is believing. Men have always been regarded as the dominant gender, but with time I have come realise that the opposite is actually true.That is particularly true when it comes to being honest with friends; male and female. As I said before, you have to see these double-faced men to believe.Some men are really pathetic hypocrites who are not worthy of being called friends.They say one thing to a male friend but are completely cowed when cornered by the opposite sex.Well the other day I was hanging out at Mama B s; strategically sipping my drink to suit the bad times. A measure I usually employ when I know cannot afford another drink.The place was rowdy with United and City fans cheering on their teams, I never watch the so-called derbies because I believe they are responsible for the stagnant state of our football.So while the guys eyes were glued to the projector and TV screens I was trying to browse the net on my phone.The exercise turned out to be quite frustrating; each time I tried to connect I failed.I couldn t understand why because I had just bought a bundle with the last cent of credit I had.Then the gadget flashed, low battery. I knew I had to stop to save some power or else I would soon be completely off air.I was relieved when my friend Gumpi suddenly appeared and sat next to me. I have always been good to the guy when my pockets permitted.So I had every reason to hope that the guy would take me out of my single-bottle misery.Ooh! The guy just ordered one for himself. No, I thought, I had to let the guy understand my situation. In fact, I felt obliged to. Why, if he would offer then surely I had the right to request. Mmmh, mmh, I checked the voice and said, Uncle, one for me too. You know today is not my day. I was almost sure the guy would flick his fingers and another bottle would come. I mean that s what friends do.But instead, Ha ha ha, the guy chucked as if I had said sometime very amusing to his big ears. Ah bro, even myself things aren t well at all, he said. He went on further by reminding me that he was not the only friend that I had around!I felt disappointed and betrayed and from that point I promised myself not to offer anyone a drink until they have proved worthy.Then in came a lady in black tight jeans and a red blouse. She looked quite stunning as she walked towards our table. She actually sat at the next table.You could tell she was a real party girl. She seemed to know everyone around except me.She waved at my friend Gumpi who waved back with a wide Mr. Bean-like smile.Gumpi said something to me that I didn t comprehend then grabbed his drink, moved off to join her.Soon they were in a different world, chatting, giggling and even getting cozy as some touching soon followed .It was shocking how my friend had suddenly undergone complete financial renaissance. I couldn t believe my ears when I heard him telling the waiter, Bring three for me and three for her. When he bought the fifth beer for the lady while I was still on that single bottle I had.I decided it was time to quit before I said something unpleasant to the friend of mine.