Dar es Salaam. Tanzania s industrialisation and tourism goals are likely to be elusive unless the investment environment is improved, experts warn.The government plans to industrialise the country and attract 2 million tourists annually, up from the current 1.2 million in 2020.Economics professor Haji Semboja of the University of Dar es Salaam says industrialisation is a long process that needs ample time and creation of an environment friendly for investors. Currently, we don t have stable and transparency economic and social policies to attract more investors. He cites the case of government intervention in pegging the sugar price, contrary to principles of the free market economy.That was confusing businesspeople as no investor would like investing in such an environments in which commodity prices are not determined by market forces of demand and supply, he warns.Investors, according to him, need stability in all regimes.He advised the government to avoid making changes which would impact negatively on investors. He believes that for Tanzania to become industrialised, Tanzanians should be involved in driving the country s economy, You can t have sustainable development if you leave all investments at the hands of foreign investors and wananchi remain viewers of the show. He has called on Tanzania to take a left out of Kenya s book where foreigners only complement and do not substitute investments.The richest people in Kenya are Kenyan themselves, according to him. We need serious investments in industries. But that can t be attained by sloganeering. We need skills. Agriculture should be modernised and commercialised to produce raw materials for factories.According to the Second Five-Year Development Plan (FYDP II) 2016/17 2020/21, agriculture accounts for 30 per cent of exports and 65 per cent of inputs into the industrial sector.Prof Semboja also doubts whether the target of increasing the number of tourists will be attained because there are no serious strategies to implement tourism policies. It is unfortunate; we are not optimally utilising available tourist attractions we are endowed with. Economics professor Honest Ngowi of the Mzumbe University also warns that tourism and manufacturing sector are unlikely to grow as expected unless obstacles are addressed.The calls on the government to ensure smooth water and power services are made available and the tax regime and policies become friendly for investors. The government should go an extra mile by encouraging investments in industries to produce inexpensive but quality products to achieve its industrialisation target. He called on the private sector to produce quality products and compete globally. This will increase competitiveness of our local industries, make consumers confident and eventually reduce imports. On agriculture, which accounts for 28 per cent of gross domestic product and employs about 70 per cent of the workforce, he says, the government has not invested adequately. We have talked the talk but not walked the walk on the 2003 Maputo Declaration which African leaders pledged to reverse decades of underinvestment in the sector by allocating at least 10 per cent of their national budgets to agriculture and achieve at least 6 percent annual agricultural growth. In the 2015/16 financial year, Sh32.7billion out of the total budget of Sh22.5 trillion was allocated to agriculture. Only Sh5.2 billion was delivered by April 2016 to the Ministry of Agriculture.For agriculture sector to contribute more to GDP and significantly reduce food insecurity, the sector requires greater public investment.To boost their potential, Africa s smallholder farmers need more training, infrastructure, financial services, affordable inputs and better access to markets.Prof Ngowi commends the government for establishing the Tanzania Agricultural Development Bank to enable farmers to get capital.However, he called for assured market for agricultural products and low interest rates.He is worried about the imposition of value-added tax (VAT) on tourism services this financial year, saying it may have negative impact on the industry.Repoa s Prof Samuel Wangwe says more investments are needed in roads, railways and ports to attract more investors in industries, agriculture and tourism. Intensive investments are needed in infrastructure to create a friendly environment for investors for the government to realise its plans. He says if infrastructure is improved, the ease of doing business will improve as transport costs will fall.Improved ports and railways will enhance efficiency in cargo clearance and transportation.He is worried VAT on tourism services will hamper investment in tourism.He called for dialogue between the government and the Tanzania Tourist Board to create a conducive environment for investment in the industry.Industry, Trade and Investment minister Charles Mwijage agrees that implementing industrialisation plans is an uphill task, but promises to tackle challenges as soon as possible.He told BusinessWeek over phone that to end water and power woes for industries, the government has, in this year s fiscal year, set aside about Sh2 trillion.He also said to improve infrastructure over Sh4 trillion was set aside.