We ve all heard of numerous home remedies, some aid in healing while others are just a myth. These remedies have existed for centuries; they cure a variety of ailments from sore throat to headaches.Home remedies are much cheaper than modern medicine and can be administered with little or no knowledge of medicine.They are mostly used to treat minor conditions and act as a relief before getting medical attention.Although these remedies are useful, they should never substitute the treatment prescribed by a doctor.Below are home remedies proven to aid in curing common ailments.Home remedies for sunburn Potato paste: Grind washed potatoes and make into paste, use cotton balls to apply on sunburn areas. This will relieve pain and reduce inflammation Cool milk compress: Soak a gauze into a bowl or cool milk and drape over the sunburn area pressing gently. This will protect the skin and help it heal. Baking soda: Mix baking soda with cool water until a paste is formed. Apply the paste gently over the burn area. This remedy reduces the redness and pain caused by the sunburn. Aloe gel: This is the most popular remedy for sunburns. Split some aloe leaves and lay them on the burn area or squeeze some aloe gel out of the leaves and apply on skin. Plain yoghurt: Smear some plain yoghurt over the burn area for 10minuted and then rinse with cool water. This will help heal your skin and give a soothing feeling.Home remedies for common cold Fluids: Drinking lots of fluids will help prevent dehydration and reduce congestion. Chicken soup does have anti- inflammatory effects that clear stuffy noses and soothe sore throats. Steam inhalation: This is one of the most effective ways to reduce nasal congestion. Hold your head over boiling water or use a humidifier to inhale steam. Salt water gargle: Mix half teaspoon of salt in a glass of warm water and gargle. This is a very effective treatment not only because salt is a natural disinfectant but also becauseit helps reduce inflammation in the throat. Ginger tea: Drink a cup of ginger tea. This will decrease nasal stuffiness as well as suppress the cough. Honey: Drink a glass of warm lemon water and honey or mix it into green tea. This not only prevents dehydration but also decreases congestion.Home Remedies for dandruff Olive oil: Massage your scalp with olive oil and wash your hair next morning. This helps to remove dandruff flakes. Aloe vera: Apply Aloe vera gel from the leaves of plant onto your scalp and wash after fifteen minutes. This helps reduce itching, soothes the scalp and has antifungal properties Baking soda: Wet your hair and rub baking soda on your scalp, alternatively you can make a baking soda paste. Baking soda acts as an exfoliant that will reduce excess oil. Tea tree oil: Massage your scalp with tee tree oil every alternative day before shampooing. Tea tree is known for its antifungal properties. Calm your mind: Several people have dandruff flare-ups linked to depression, anxiety and stress. Reducing stress by meditation and working out may help reduce dandruff flare-ups.Email: sajjadfazel@hotmail.com