Dar es Salaam. At 28, Zuwena Pendo never imagined she could suffer a stroke. She always looked healthy. And growing up, she had no major health complications. But one day she suddenly developed a strange headache. Assuming it was what it was a mere headache she took some pain killers. It happened while I was at work. The next thing I recall was falling down, and my friends pulling a chair for me, she says. I knew nothing about it, but when I realised I could feel nothing in my right side, my fears grew. She spent the next 10 weeks in hospital.Doctors confirmed she had suffered a stroke. It also turned out that the 28-year-old was diabetic. Diabetes, like hypertension, is considered a major risk factor for stroke. I went through therapy and recovered. I am thankful to my family who stood by me all the time, says the Dar es Salaam-based single mother of one.Much as her story is not uncommon, what makes it stand out is the age. At 28, it sounds novel to many that a person can be a victim of stroke. But the trend is worrying, medical experts who spoke to The Citizen on Sunday this week have said.Finding more specific, more accurate data on the extent of stroke incidences at the national level is difficult because there has not been a countrywide study on the disease in recent years.Much of what is available are episodic hospital cases, and stories told by survivors as well as families of victims but all that reflect the growing risks of stroke the young and middle-aged, especially in urban areas, are currently facing.Working with mostly stroke patients, a physiotherapist with the Aga Khan Hospital in Dar es Salaam, Dr Jerusalem Makotore, has been observing the trend over the years. He says while most of them usually occur among the elderly, stroke in young adults in the country are no longer uncommon. We have no specific data on the extent of the problem, but what I can confirm is that judging by the demography of the patients we see, we have an increasing number of patients who can be grouped among the younger generation, says Dr Makotore.He says the trend can be attributed to lifestyle changes that are increasingly causing hypertension and cardiovascular diseases among the young and middle-aged.According to the physiotherapist, a good number of the younger adults are being affected by the most common type of stroke (ischemic stroke), which is caused by the obstruction of blood flow to the brain.While there may be other factors, it also boils down to food and lack of physical activity, he says. There is a tendency among young adults to take unhealthy foods with high levels of cholesterol, fat and other elements. These mix up to build plaque in the arteries that carry blood to the brain. When flow of blood to one section of heart muscle is blocked, the result is a heart attack. That means the heart muscle is dying, he explains.Last year, researchers at the University of Wurzburg in Germany found that those individuals who ate the most red meat had a 47 per cent higher risk of the condition, compared with those who ate the smallest quantities.They warned that protein in red meat increases the chance a person will experience a blockage in the blood vessels that supply the brain - known as an ischemic stroke.Dr Enatha Mongella, a medical practitioner at Sanitas Medical and Diagnostics Centre in Dar es Salaam, corroborates. It comes as a little surprise to her that most young adult victims of stroke are in urban areas. Life challenges in urban areas are different from what the rural populace faces. It is also because of the different types of foods in the rural areas there are healthier eating habits. The foods there do not contain too much cholesterol, she says.An article published in July 2010 in respected medical journal Lancet confirms the two health experts views.Titled The incidence of stroke in rural Tanzania , the article notes that stroke incidence in urban Tanzania is about three times higher than in the rural setting, suggesting that urbanisation may be increasing stroke risk, not only in the country, but also in the developing world.The Lancet article was published after a study involving Denmark-based researchers, and was part of the Tanzania Stroke Incidence Project , which documented the incidence of stroke in Hai District (rural) and Dar es Salaam (urban) during a three-year period beginning June 2003. Researchers also noted that age-standardised incidence rates in Dar es Salaam were higher than in most studies of developed countries, possibly due to a difference in the prevalence of risk factors. Hypertension seems to be the main modifiable risk factor: two-thirds of patients who died from stroke in Tanzania had a history of hypertension, the study authors noted. In addition, the prevalence of hypertension in patients with stroke was somewhat higher in Dar-es-Salaam than in Hai.One of the study authors, Dr Thomas Truelsen, a senior hospital physician at the Department of Neurology, University of Copenhagen, Denmark, pointed out that the results confirmed those of other studies in African populations showing high rates of hypertension, especially in urban areas, and suggest that prevention of stroke in these populations should include control of high blood pressure.He said that this study from rural and urban Tanzania both sets new standards for stroke incidence studies in Africa and suggests that improved prevention is urgently needed to reduce the already high stroke incidence rates in these populations. The authors said the high rates in Tanzania were due to untreated hypertension. Our study assessed mortality over a single time period and therefore it is not possible to comment on trends with time. However, ageing of the population is likely to lead to a very large increase in mortality from stroke in the future, they noted.Two weeks ago, the condition struck Victoria Kaurirai, a mother of two who woke up on Saturday, August 27, to what would become a nightmarish weekend.It was a normal day for the 50-year-old entrepreneur, who started her day by performing her usual household chores. But she would soon complain of an excruciating headache. She had also previously complained of a cold and tiredness. She went took a bed rest for a while after the headache persisted. But moments later she felt she couldn t speak, recalls her younger brother, Victor Chinake. It happened suddenly. Her mouth drooped, and foam started coming out. She fell down and her whole left side was paralysed. The rest is history, he says.Mrs Kaurirai was rushed to hospital where it was confirmed she had high blood pressure. Her brother says she has had issues with hypertension, and in weeks leading to the fateful day, her BP had been going up and down.Though she is still in hospital, Mrs Kaurirai is recovering well and has just started three-day weekly physiotherapy sessions on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. She can now stand on her own, and much as we want to help her come back on her feet again, the doctors encourage that she tries it on her own for even quicker recovery, Mr Chinake, a nutritionist, says.Dr Heri Tungaraza, a physician at Muhimbili National Hospital in Dar es Salaam, says stroke in young adults can lead to chronic illness and disability that places a terrible burden on the victims and their families. If the stroke is severe it can be very debilitating, impacting the ability of young people to work and raise their families, he says.Ms Benadetar Masila is a second-year BA student at the University of Dar es Salaam