What ails Bongo scribblers? Many problems mess us up as we slog to, like we purport, to inform, educate and entertain, but I see one sticking out like a sore thumb: disregard of basics.Yes, basics like a full stop at the end of each sentence, after which one must start the next with a capital letter. Very basic, isn t it? Yes, it is; but ask any of the unsung hero and heroine of the newsroom called subeditor and they ll shock you!Many writers don t seem to care (I refuse to say they don t know), leaving the task of sorting out small matters matters that even juniors at O-Level should be able to handle to subeditors.Subeditors are an overworked lot; their task should be to add value to your raw copy, recheck facts and detect libel. Now the thing is, irresponsible scribblers often become victims of poetic justice, when the tired subeditor s eye fails to take note of their silly mistakes.It s you, the bearer of the by-line not the subeditor, who becomes the laughing stock in the eyes of readers out there, including Form One and Two children who should be learning from you!Enough lecturing, so let s move on and sample gems collected over the past week. We ll start with a Page 4 story in the Sunday sister tabloid of Bongo s huge and colourful broadsheet (Sept 4 edition), entitled, Sweden to fix CCTV across Arusha , in which the scribbler says: Swedish ambassador said her country was ready to carry out installation works for closed circuit TV cameras in the city a move that will TIGHTEN A NOOSE on (sic) the regional security. A noose, says our wordbook, is a circle tied at the end of a rope with a knot that allows the circle to get smaller as the other end is pulled. Like the hangman s rope. Figuratively, when someone is in a difficult situation, like being in debt, we may say, His debts have become a noose around (not on ) his neck. Now security is not a difficulty; actually it s a solution and so, why should anyone strangle it with a rope? We believe the scribbler set out to say something like, a move to TIGHTEN security . Just another way of saying to IMPROVE security .In the last Para of his story, the scribbler says, Following a CIVILIAN tip off, the police gunned two suspected armed robbers Civilian tip off? As opposed to a military tip off, maybe? Ah, we don t know, though the reader who drew our attention to this said he d rather our colleague said, following a tip off from a (law-abiding) citizen Or, simply, ... following a tip off. Let s avoid verbosity.On Monday, Sept 5, the tabloid whose boss signs this columnist s paycheque, ran on Page 4, a story headlined, Three sue EAC over job loss after axing of peace, security unit and therein said the scribbler in Para 1: The secretary general of the cash-strapped EAC will be arraigned IN COURT by former employees We ve said it here numerous times before, but who cares? The thing is: it s nonsensical to qualify arraign with in court , because by the verb arraign by itself means call or bring (someone) before a court to answer a criminal charge. The next day s (Sept 6) of the same tabloid ran, on Page 7, a story with the headline, Alcoholism, drug abuse rife in Kilimanjaro , in which the scribbler says in Para 4, According to him, the government run Mawenzi Hospital was recording about 800 TO 1,000 psychiatrist cases every week. The adverb about means approximately minus or plus a given figure. Which is to say, with the information the news source had (800-1,000), and if our colleague was keen on using the adverb about , then he should have said, recording about 900 psychiatrist cases ).However, he dearly wished to publish both figures, he ought to have said, between 800 AND (not to ) 1,000 Finally, a few gems from Bongo s senior-most daily broadsheet (Sept 6 edition) courtesy of a Page 1 story entitled, Three bank robbers shot by COLLEAGUES in Mkuranga forest .Colleagues? No, we say! And we ll use our dictionary to show why. A colleague, says our Cambridge Advanced Learner s Dictionary, is one of a group of people who WORK together. As we all know, robbery is NOT work; it s a CRIME.People who STEAL/ROB together, like those said to have killed each other at Mkuranga, are referred to as ACCOMPLICES.Ah, this treacherous language called English!