Literally, there are far too few resources directly addressing the nonacademic trials and tribulations young entrepreneurs face along their journey.Whenever possible, I encourage up-and-comers and established entrepreneurs to mentor the next generation of dream-seekers; for it is this insight and insider education that will provide the foundation for the entrepreneurs of tomorrow.With that, I can guarantee that my reader that many first-time entrepreneurs feel the need to jump at every opportunity they come across. Opportunities are often wolves in sheep s clothing. Avoid getting side-tracked. Dealing with multiple ventures will spread you thin and limit both your effectiveness and productivity. Focus on one thing perfectly, not five things poorly. If you feel the need to jump onto another project, that might mean something about your original concept.Know what you do and just do what you know. Do not start a business simply because it seems exciting or boasts large hypothetical profit margins and returns. Do what you are passionate about, something you really love and enjoy doing it. Businesses built around your strengths and talents will have a greater chance of success. It s not only important to create a profitable business, it s also important that you re happy managing and growing it day in and day out. If your heart is not in it, you will not be successful.Pronounce it in 30 seconds or don t preach it at all. From a chance encounter with an investor to a curious customer, always be ready to pitch your business. State your mission, service and goals in a clear and concise manner. Fit the pitch to the person. Less is always more.Know what you know, what you don t know and who knows what you don t. No one knows everything, so don t come off as a know-it-all. Surround yourself with consultants and mentors who will nurture you to become a better leader and businessman. Find successful, knowledgeable individuals with whom you share common interests and mutual business goals that see value in working with you for the long-term.Act like a startup. Forget about fancy offices, fast cars and fat expense accounts. Your wallet is your company s life-blood. Practice and perfect the art of being frugal. Watch every dollar and triple-check every expense. Maintain a low overhead and manage your cash flow effectively.Learn under fire. No business book or business plan can predict the future or fully prepare you to become a successful entrepreneur. There is no such thing as the perfect plan.There is no perfect road or one less traveled. Never jump right into a new business without any thought or planning, but don t spend months or years waiting to execute. You will become a well-rounded entrepreneur when tested under fire. The most important thing you can do is learn from your mistakes--and never make the same mistake twice.No one will give you money. There, I said it. No one will invest in you. If you need large sums of capital to launch your venture, go back to the drawing board. Find a starting point instead of an end point. Scale down pricey plans and grandiose expenditures. Simplify the idea until it s manageable as an early stage venture. Find ways to prove your business model on a shoestring budget. Demonstrate your worth before seeking investment. If your concept is successful, your chances of raising capital from investors will dramatically improve.Be healthy!! On this I mean, healthily take care of yourself as it is a fact that you will be much more productive when you take better care of yourself. Entrepreneurship is a lifestyle, not a 9-to-5 profession. Working to the point of exhaustion will burn you out and make you less productive. Don t make excuses. Eat right, exercise and find time for yourself.Don t fall victim to your own Business. Do not talk the talk unless you can walk the walk. Impress with action not conversation. Endorse your business enthusiastically, yet tastefully. Avoid exaggerating truths and touting far reaching goals as certainties. In short, put up or shut up.Know when to call it quits. Contrary to popular belief, a smart captain does not go down with the ship. Don t go on a fool s errand for the sake of ego. Know when it s time to walk away. If your idea doesn t pan out, reflect on what went wrong and the mistakes that were made. Assess what you would have done differently. Determine how you will utilize these hard-learned lessons to better yourself and your future entrepreneurial endeavors. Failure is inevitable, but a true entrepreneur will prevail over adversity.Julius Landu Bulili M.Sc. (Economics &amp;Econometrics); CPM, S.A.| Small &amp; Medium Enterprises Coach Email: lucbulili@yahoo.com or jullybulili@gmail.com