Although Ms Skastina Majani, our female headmaster otherwise commonly known to all and sundry as Bensouda, had promised to take me for a road trip when she fully learns how to drive. I did not imagine that it would be so soon. I had imagined it would be months away.But as they say, ya mungu ni mengi, ya kuku ni mayai. It all started on Monday. That day, Bensouda arrived a little late. She was brought to the school by her usual driver. Instead of the driver taking a bodaboda, for the first time he left with the car but not before a long and seemingly heated argument with Bensouda. This fool is playing with me, she said when she had settled in her office. He thinks he is the only driver in the world. She went on to tell me that the driver had refused to take a bodaboda claiming that Bensouda wasn t paying him enough. I have paid him a lot of money, why can t he just pay Sh50 for a bodaboda? she wondered. She added that she had only allowed him to go with her car since some repairs were needed. I have told him to take the car for service and return it by noon, she said.By noon, Bensouda was standing outside her office, looking out for the car to come. It did not come. Every other minute, she was on her phone trying to call. This fool is not picking my calls, she told me when she saw me going to the staffroom from class. Huyu anaskianga tu Skastina. Leo atanijua. Don t worry, he will just come back, I sad to encourage her. Usiongee Dre! she said. Do you know how much I bought that car? What if he disappears with it, or goes to sell parts? What if he causes an accident? What will I do? This fool is not picking my calls, hebu nitumie simu yako, she requested me as she came to my office after lunch. She had not even taken lunch. Call this number. She gave me a number that I called, the call was received and after greetings, I told him that someone wanted to speak to him. Nani? he asked. The moment Bensouda started speaking, he claimed that there was a network problem and disconnected the call. It was around 2.30 pm. Huyu leo atanijua! She kept pacing up and down, and frantically trying to call. It was at around 3 pm when the driver arrived. By which time Bensouda was too upset to even speak. She just left the office went to the car, and they left.That evening, I sent her a WhatsApp message asking her how it went. I have fired that fool! was her curt response. Let s talk tomorrow, I am in no talking mood, she responded when I asked for more details. Please do me a favour tomorrow, she wrote me later on at around 9pm. Anything for you, I answered. She asked if I could ride my bicycle to her home, then we drive together to school. We would then drive to her home in the evening from where I would ride my bicycle home. I know how to drive, I just need company to encourage me, she said.Who was I to refuse? Especially when it was an invite from Bensouda. There were unlimited opportunities at her place! Anything for you dear, what time do you want to see me? I was immediately deleting these WhatsApp messages lest Fiolina saw them.I was at Bensouda s place by 7.30 am. She was very happy to see me. Karibu. Ni wewe umeniamsha. She said as she opened the door. She was wearing tight shorts and a sleeveless t-shirt.Can I give you something to take, tea? she asked. I could see juice in her sitting room cupboard. I asked for juice. And she brought me a glass and water. Plus biscuits. She went to the bedroom and returned with only a towel around her, and walked to the bathroom outside. That towel was big, on my body it could have been a blanket! This was becoming more exciting than I had anticipated.