The dry season is upon us. The bright sunny mornings are accompanied by a chilling windy breeze. You need the courage of a Masaai warrior to get out of bed. Well these past few weeks there were a couple of interesting things happening here. One, a group of land surveyors came around our squatter camps areas to do some measurements. The aim I was told was to legitimize our controversial land ownership. Yes, they were there to make us legal residents of these shapeless plots we have for many, many years called home. I thought that was an excellent idea; legitimizing the plots of the wretched of the earth. If this exercise is successful, no doubt it will be a real revolution to the wananchi; politically known as walala hoi. However, as usual with the human spirit especially the spirit pitiable masses all sorts of tales are flying around now. Some folks are already pouring praise to the minister; calling him a real patriot. Amazingly the same loss fellows are already cerebrating even before the exercise is yet to get anywhere sensible. With the papers we can then sell of our plots easily at a good price. Bahati the shopkeeper was telling his friend Doi, the mason as they sat drinking and talking. It is a Sunday morning and the atmosphere at Mama B s was rather a jubilant one almost everyone was drunk. Brown plastic bottles of the Nzagamba were everywhere. Loud music was blaring from the speakers, the usual popular stuff of Lake Zone vernaculars with some old Swahili and Congolese classics. Bahati then goes on saying, That is the first thing I will do as soon as I get the papers. After selling I will go back to our village and buy a shamba there. Ha, ha, ha, Doi laughed. I thought you would say that you would take a bank loan and do some business. The village will also have been surveyed. There will be no land there for shamba. Doi s words seemed to have caught Bahati by surprise. He was left in awe, mouth ajar. Then George who was staggering around drunk came up. Hee, mambo vipi? he said, go over to the two. Listen I have heard you guys talking about this plot business going on in our area. The guys nodded in unison, Yes we have been discussing about it, said Doi. Do you trust these Government people? Operations like these are meant to prepare you for eviction. Once the exercise of giving out plot is over; next the government will announce a change in the land usage by law. With your documents it will be easy for the government to pay you some compensation and force you to leave . Wee acha, Bahati argued If you think I am lying go to Dar and ask the people of Kigamboni if I am lying. George had opened a can of worms. Arguments started hovering in all directions. Some argued that it was a national exercise so it cannot be a hoax. They had heard the minister himself speaking about the project. While others said there have been such promises before of settling the accumulating land issues that have just ended in empty words and no action. Remember that mama Prof who worked for UN Habitat? She promised us so much but ended up escrowing billions of cash, someone chipped in. Aah, she was a mbweenu. All people from that region are con artists. Jaluo who is one of darkest skin beings you have ever met commented. His statement infuriated a couple of guys from that Senene region. They demanded that Jaluo withdraws his statement before any talk can continue. Jaluo refused to do so. Immediately Mr. Muhemezi and his fellow tribesmen got off their chair ready for a fight. Suddenly someone said, Jamani, difenda hiyo inakuja.