Pre-primary education is a very important stage in a child s learning process and so is the parents involvement in understanding its significance. However, according to the recent fifth Uwezo annual learning assessment report , that has studied the state of education in Tanzania in 2014, the participation of children in public pre-primary schools remain to be low with signs of declining enrolment rates in recent years.Children who live in poverty have had limited access to attend early childhood care and education making them a vulnerable group. In the same report, Uwezo, the five year initiative that aims to improve competencies in literacy and numeracy among children aged 6-16 years further showed the findings of Prime Minister s office, regional and local government.Between 2003 and 2012, the net enrolment ratio (NER) in pre-primary education in Tanzania doubled from 22.2 per cent to 46.8 per cent, but fell significantly to 35.5 per cent in 2013.The Uwezo survery data of 2014 assessed 1,309 schools, of which 8 out of 10 schools had a pre-primary class. The survey recorded similar pre-primary enrolment rates as those reported by Prime Ministers office. Among the pre-primary school goers between the ages of 5-6years, only 35.3 per cent were said to be enrolled in pre-primary institutions.Peter Mgisa, a nursery school teacher in Mbezi says that the Uwezo report reflects the many children, in particular those in rural areas, who do not attend pre-primary education due to poverty and having poor access to schools.Mr Mgisa in an interview with Success emphasised the involvement of a parent to be important in their child s early education program. He said, The alarming low rate of enrolment of children in early education can also be due to the negligence of parents not having access to information about pre-primary education and classes. According to the report, low pre-primary enrolment maybe linked to the poor quality of pre-primary facilities and the acute shortage of trained early childhood educators. Mr Mgisa further added, The private schools have invested greatly in offering the early education, from educators to facilities. But it excludes the majority of Tanzanians who depend on public schools and cannot afford to take their children to a private nursery school. Hence, the parents or guardians don t take the initiative on realising the importance of such education or opportunities. Moreover, early childhood education is excluded from the government s capitation grant system. The only resources available to pre-primary schools are through fees and contributions. Poor families are therefore less likely to enrol their children in pre-primary education.Jane Ndomba, the head teacher of Peramiho primary school is of the same view that the grant system has been a challenge for both pre-primary education and primary education level. She said, For instance my school receives Sh270,000 every month as a capitation grant for 700 pupils and there isn t definite illustration on how the money should be used. To ensure that the amount is well utilised is a challenge on my part and the school. Despite the fall of enrolment, the report showed that there were no gender differences between girls and boys in pre-school enrolment rates. This is said to be in consistent with the 2014 United Nations International Children s Emergency Fund s (UNICEF) profile of out of school children in Tanzania . Both of these sources indicate that boys and girls have almost the same opportunity to attend pre-primary education.Uwezo 2014 data has indicated disparity in access to pre-primary education by residence and by household wealth.The survey found that 84 per cent of pre-primary school goers of the age between 5-6 years who were out of school were living in rural areas. Enrolment of pre-primary children in urban areas was 54 per cent higher than in rural areas.Uwezo 2014 data also revealed marked disparities in pre-primary attendance by household wealth of the children enrolled in pre-primary schools. 62 per cent came from wealthier families as compared to 23 per cent from poorer households.The wealth inequalities were calculated by categorising the households into five socioeconomic groups according to a number of basic criteria namely the ownership of durable assets whether they have access to electricity and/ or clean water, and whether they own any means of transport.