In life and in the oncology practice, prevention avails the best chance to battle cancer, especially for a resource-strained country like Tanzania. For the cases of cancer that fail to be prevented early, treatment is a prerequisite and this includes an array of choices. Cancer treatment can entail surgery chemotherapy, radiotherapy, hormonal therapy and immunotherapy.The choice of the treatment method depends on the cancer diagnosed, the patient s condition and accessibility to a particular treatment. In the last quarter of the 20th Century, the human race has witnessed advancement in both the radiotherapy machines and the computer technology-enabling doctors to precisely deliver radiation to the tumors in terms of both right doses and position.In France, it was discovered that radiation on its capacity would cause cancer. The introduction of Intensity-modulated radiation means that new techniques that are aimed at improving radiation by producing the right doses for the tumors, with minimum side effects, has become popular.The most current machines used to deliver radiation is the linear acceletor which is becoming popular and replacing the cobalt that has been used in Tanzania since time memorial in saving numerous lives. The cobalt has been used by the patients attending at Ocean Road Cancer Institute and years it has been the only machine used. It has not only served Tanzanians but also patients from neighboring countries such as Malawi and Comoros.However, since there is only one machine in the country, it is overworked. There is a long list of patients waiting for this service. And for years, patients all over the country have to travel to Dar es salaam if their doctors recommend radiation therapy as part of the treatment.With cervical cancer on the rise among women in Tanzania, it is obvious this is the group that is most affected because radiotherapy is core of the cervical cancer treatment. The good news is that the government is in the process of procuring a new machine that is more advanced to curb the current crisis.The new LINAC will improve the quality of services at the institute and on top of that, the machine does away with challenges of disposing the radioactive material because it uses protons to create the radiations-unlike the cobalt one. However, the cobalt that is still at the ORCI and other sites in African continue to serve the masses because they are cheaper, easier to maintain, easy to train technicians and require less power supply. These advantages mean a lot to the developing countries and it could be the only reason why the cobalt unit still holds an edge in this part of the world.Bugando Medical Center is in possession of two units of LINAC that they are planning to set up soon and the only reason holding them back from realizing their dream of treating people with the new machines is the 3 billion needed. That s how expensive LINAC can be. Radiotherapy machines need to be increased to get our people s lives prolonged and for some cases even saved from these cancers.I dream of a Tanzanian society with both enough cobalt and LINAC units so that we enjoy the benefits of both worlds in the hope to save even more lives.