She has worked hard for the rest of her life and now in her twilight she has decided to do all she ever dreamt of, giving back to the community. Dolsoon Han from South Korea is one of a kind who has decided to forego her comfort to reach out to the underprivileged schools that are experiencing all sorts of shortages. The 85-year-old s generosity reached out to children in Mlandizi, Coast Region, through the Global Together; she expects to help bring smiles on the faces of over 2,774 Mtongani Primary School pupils. At the school there is a tell tale sign that they will soon be studying in good and conducive environment after Mrs Han handed over four classrooms and 100 desks to the Kibaha District Commissioner Asumpta Mshama. The Korean woman donated Sh45 million which was used for construction of the four classrooms and buying 100 desks. Her aides say that similar support will be soon extended to Azimio Primary School, also in Mlandizi. This according to Kibaha DC Asumpta Mshama, was support that was timely especially after a nationwide campaign to make sure learning was done in conducive environment. At the beginning of the year the government embarked on the Education for all notion, a programme that offers free primary and secondary education. But schools especially in rural areas, are facing a myriad of challenges in achieving smooth provision to free education. Building classrooms Living in South Korea, thousands of miles away from the school, Mrs Han had no idea about the troubles that Mtongani primary school pupils were facing. It was her son, Prof MyungKen Lee, the Global Together Chief Executive Officer, who introduced her to the school. The stories of the plight of pupils at the Mlandizi School narrated by her son touched her heart. Recalling the nightmares of the aftermath of the Korean War that left her country s social-economy infrastructure destroyed, she felt she had a duty to play. According to her, though only a distant memory to some, the war between North and South Korea and the aftermath was very traumatising. It was a war that condemned the Korean people to poverty as they lived in a life filled with all sorts of shortages including access to education. I found myself on the street, selling ice cream and corns to make a living. The country was almost brought to a standstill with thousands killed as the survivors were left in dire poverty, Mrs Han narrates in her native Korean through a translator. My son told me about the situation in one of the schools in Tanzania, where his NGO is carrying out several projects. I was touched by the stories and my intuition pushed me to do something to support the pupils in Mlandizi, she says. At first she wanted to give the money to her son to donate to the school but he refused. He wanted the old woman to donate the money personally. I asked my son through the Global Together to arrange everything and tell me what is needed so that I can support the school, she says. She is thankful to the Almighty for providing her with something that she can share with others. God has answered my prayers and now I have little money which I can use to support the community like the pupils at Mlandizi Primary School, she says. But why does she want to help children whom she hardly has any connection with? It is because I was once a poor child, too. I know how it feels like when you don t have money to afford decent food, clothes, housing, healthcare and education, she says. She remembers once being on the verge of starvation but even then she never lost hope. It was like a miracle when some businessmen around the place came to my rescue. They organised themselves and built a shop for me. It is from that shop that I have become who I am today, she recalls. To her there is no better way of giving back to the community than helping school children achieve their dreams. She believes that by giving back to the community she is returning what others gave to her some decades ago. Seeing the pupils happy and cheering after receiving the donation makes me realise that they have appreciated the little efforts I have done, she says. But even with such a substantial donation Mrs Han promises to continue her association with the school and in future she looks forward to hosting pupils who will perform well in their exams at her home in South Korea. Always work hard. It will always pay. You will accomplish your goals. You will learn, build and of course change the situation at the end and get results. Do not dream of success, wake up, work hard and live the success, she tells the pupils. She adds: I know I am old now but I ask God to give me some more years and if otherwise, then my son, Prof Lee, through Global Together, will fulfill what I have promised. Lee, who is a Yonsei University Professor, is also in charge of the Tanzania Hospital Management Strategy Development and Consulting Project, expressed his commitment to extending the support they provided to Mtongani Primary School to the nearby Azimio Primary School and other schools in Kibaha. Global Together is currently carrying out several projects in Kibaha Town Council and Kibaha District Council, and it has been providing microfinance support to women in Coastal Region since 2014. Elizabeth Mollel, the chairperson of the women group at the NGO, said women in Kibaha have been offered soft loans by the NGO which have enabled them in several ways. However, she says that remittance was the major stumbling block for the success of some projects as other women failed to repay the loan which could have been extended to others. According to Global Together program officer Sechang Oh, they target to serve both domestic and international underserved populations by helping children and adolescents experience the world in a global context and maximise their potential. It also participates in international urgent relief efforts and lead international development initiatives in public health, medicine, education and other sectors. Global Together actively supports multicultural families in Korea, youth vision trip, youth leadership experiences, emergency relief as well as vulnerable population who are living in extreme poverty and abuse but receive little protection from their respective society, says Sechang Oh. In Tanzania, five primary schools in Kibaha District Council; Mlandizi, Mtongani, Jamhuri, Ruvu JKT, Azimio and five others in Kibaha Town Council; Kibaha, Mwendapole, Tumbi, Mamlaka, Kongowe, have benefited from the support from Global Together. etungaraza@tz.nationmedia.com