This time we are going to talk about HIV prevalence in married couples. We decided not to wait until World Aids Day to talk about this since the epidemic is still here. Let s take a look at the statistics to see why this is relevant now and needs some urgent action. Though the global response has been great and Tanzanian Government has tirelessly worked towards curbing the spread of HIV/Aids, a lot still needs to be done to ensure that we win this battle as a nation.According to AVERT, 1.4 million people are living with HIV in Tanzania. There are about 54,000 new infections and 36,000 Aids related deaths according to their latest study. The good news is that Tanzanian Government has done extremely well to minimize the impact of HIV/Aids and to control the spread. The problem that needs to be effectively tackled is the new infections and the population boom thus access to treatment remains a big challenge in some places. And according to health experts, combating social drivers that fuel the spread of this disease is the best way forward.Among these social drivers are customary practices, sexual behavior, gender norms, and education, income, and health system and marriage characteristics. These are some of the factors that need to be addressed when tackling the issue of HIV. I am going to dwell on customary practices and gender norms and highlight how they are playing some roles in the spread of HIV/Aids. In most marriages, women are always afraid to tell their spouses to use condoms during intercourse. This is because the society has made them to believe that men should take charge of everything including those intimate sessions. This also happens in domestic unions and other extra-legal sexual unions where men are involved in some sort of defacto marriages outside their legal union. And in marriage, a man is allowed to be polygamous with the consent of the wife. This means a man has a right to choose monogamous union or polygamous marriage but a woman has no choice.No one is blaming men here but I am just trying to point out how some of these practices aid the spread of HIV. These gender discriminatory social practices such as polygamy for men worsen the situation. So as the government tries its best to control the epidemic, let s all support it to ensure that we end the epidemic once and for all.