Johannesburg. Tanzania will be looking for victory today when they lock horns with Botswana in the on-going Under-19 Africa Division 2 World Cup Qualifiers at Willowmoore Park.The Tanzanian boys hopes of advancing to the Division 1 and ultimately snatch a World Cup ticket may all but end should they slump to a loss again.They started the qualifiers with straight defeats at the hands of Sierra Leone and Zambia.After a two-day rest, Tanzania head coach Khalil Rehemtullah believes that his boys will bounce back on Wednesday (today).Botswana are among the teams primed to win one of the top two spots. Rehemtullah said the players have taken advantage of the break to train intensively in batting, bowling and fielding. I have used this break to hone their skills. We lost our first two matches because of bating weaknesses, but I hope that the boys will improve against Botswana, the coach said. I have seen improvement in batting, bowling and fielding, so I am looking forward to a positive result. Botswana is a good team, but we have the quality to beat them and revive our qualification hopes. Rehemtullah added: They have promised to approach the following matches with a positive mentality. All they want now is to play and be in the top two so they can move to Division One. Tanzania beat Botswana during the 2014 qualifiers at the same venue, but the coach-cum-player admitted that their opponents currently have a stronger team.Botswana beat Rwanda in their previous match by 196 runs.The winners won the toss and elected to bat with a determination to win and wipe off their deficit on the Net Run Rate.The Botswana Blues scored a respectable 301 runs for the loss of 4 wickets in their allotted 50 Overs; skipper Tharindu Perera fell short of well-deserved century, when he was run out on 98, Usman Mohideen partnered his captain well scoring 89 runs and valuable contributions from Rudolph Dewet and Abhiman Bhargava added to the total.In response, the Rwandans were bowled out for 105 runs.Rwanda and Tanzania now trail at the bottom without a point as Nigeria and Ghana lead, followed by Sierra Leone, Zambia and Sierra Leone.