Like it or not, teasing is a fact of life or at least of life before adulthood. Sooner or later, all children learn that words can be powerful and as you ve probably found, this is likely to happen sooner rather than later.Despite her seeming maturity, your grade-schooler s social skills are still emerging. Her peers are more important than ever, and at the same time she s trying to discover who she is. During the early elementary years, children often tease others in an effort to gain the approval of their peers or to point out perceived flaws and differences to bolster their own self-esteem. Your grade-schooler may also tease because it s the way she s been taught however inadvertently to relate to others.If her family, peers, siblings, or favourite television shows model sarcasm, put-downs, and lack of respect as normal, acceptable behaviour, it s no surprise that she mimics it. And most children find themselves on both ends of teasing the teaser and the teased at one time or another.What to do when your child gets teasedYou can t do much to prevent other children from teasing your child, but you can teach her how to cope with biting comments:Feel her painAcknowledge that it hurts to be teased. Let your child know that you understand. Also encourage her to spend time with children who like her and who make her feel good. Coach her. Tell your child that while she can t control what other children say, she can decide how she wants to react. Ask her if she has ideas about how to deal with the teasing, and help her explore her options.You might try some role playing with you playing your youngster and her acting as her tormentor. If she says, Hannah, you re such a goody-goody, for instance, you might reply, I don t like to be called names. I m going to play with someone else today. Or you could teach her to deprive a bully of the response she s seeking. If teasing doesn t get a rise out of your youngster, then it won t allow her tormentor to feel powerful or to have fun at your child s expense. Your grade-schooler can either focus on whatever activity she was involved in when the teasing started, or simply walk away.You might also teach her to meet the barbs head-on. She could say, No, I m not a very fast runner. But I can jump really far, or Yes, I am good at math. That was the only problem I missed on the test. She could also deflect a taunt by complimenting her teaser I like your shoes better, too! Her adversary may be so caught off guard by this approach that she drops her line of attack.Teach her to ask for helpIt takes a lot of maturity to let teasing roll off your back, so don t always expect a stiff upper lip from your child. If she s really upset about being teased at school especially if it s relentless she (and you) need to talk to her teacher about the situation. A teacher can support your child in the classroom by promoting positive social skills and helping her develop a broad range of friendships, says Schenck. If she s having a particularly challenging time because of the teasing, seek professional support.Don t practice what you re preaching againstPerhaps the teasing that so upsets your child doesn t come from classmates, but from you and you may not even realise it. Affectionate joshing is a wonderful way to nurture a sense of humour, but let your child be the guide. If she doesn t react well, perhaps the subject matter has hit a nerve. Don t joke with her about an issue she s struggling with, such as her weight or a nervous habit like nail biting which will only shame her. And never be harsh: No name-calling (even if it s meant affectionately) or snickering allowed. Perhaps the most important rule is not to razz your child in public. Calling her my little piggy or pudding face in front of her pals is guaranteed to make her cringe. By observing limits when you tease, you ll show your child how to clown around in a way that doesn t hurt people.What to do when your child teasesDon t overreactAlthough it upsets you to hear taunts escape your child s lips, keep your cool and resist the urge to cut her down to size. Remember, she s probably looking for a reaction. Respond by calmly letting her know that using hurtful words bruises others feelings, and by reminding her how it feels to be excluded or teased by others.Emphasize empathyWhatever the reason for her taunts, talking to your child about the effects of her behaviour helps her put herself in another person s shoes. So remind her that she d feel bad if someone said she was too loud or too short, for instance. Let her know that it s fine to notice when someone looks different, but it s not okay to mention it within their earshot. Stress that how a person looks doesn t indicate anything about who they are. And be sure to refrain from making negative comments yourself about another person s appearance.