Dar es Salaam. Simba Sports will seek to extend their unbeaten run, keep their rediscovered premier league momentum and continue holding the reins as they host bottom-placed Majimaji of Ruvuma at the National Stadium today.Last season runners-up Azam Football Club are away for a date with Ndanda FC at the Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium in Mtwara Region.The Ice Cream Makers, who lost 0-1 to Simba SC last week, face yet another acid test against an unpredictable Ndanda FC in this interest-generating match.Azam are now placed third with 10 points while Ndanda are placed 12th with five points from five matches.Simba SC lead the pack with 13 points. The seemingly revived giants have not disappointed thus far after convincingly winning four matches and drawing once this season.The Msimbazi Street side is targeting to win the Mainland title after failing to do so for four consecutive seasons. The team s assistant coach, Jackson Mayanja, said they had prepared well ahead of today s encounter and they are taking no chances against their bottom-placed rivals. We are not underrating Majimaji because of their current log standings. All we want in this and every other game that s coming are three points, said Mayanja.Majimaji head coach Peter Mhina is under pressure to come out of the danger zone after his side conceded 11 goals while scoring two since the season began.The Ruvuma boys have not won a single game. And today they are facing a fired-up opponent whose desire to reclaim lost glory has been more real than apparent. Simba SC will be looking for more splendid performances from their striking trio Ibrahim Ajibu, Shiza Kichuya and Laudit Mavugo who have played an influential role in the team s winning streak.In other matches today, JKT Ruvu host Mbeya City at the Mabatini ground in Coast Region while Tanzania Prisons play Mwadui FC at Sokoine Stadium. Mtibwa Sugar face off Mbao FC at the Manungo Complex in Turiani, Morogoro.Tomorrow, title holders Young Africans will be playing Stands United while Ruvu Shooting have a date with Toto Africans. African Lyon have an assignment against sugar boys Kagera Sugar.