Economies are increasingly dependent on digital and higher level competences and skills, says World Bank Group President, Jim Yong-Kim. He goes on to say that in too many low-and middle income countries, children are disadvantaged before they even set foot in school because they did not have adequate early nutrition.The first 1,000 days of a humans life from the womb, which is roughly from conception till a baby is in their second year; is where the body is building its foundation blocks. Ensuring every child has the right start to life during these precious 1,000 days begins first and foremost with nutrition. The nutrition that we get from the food we eat early in life is a critical building block for the growth of our bodies, the development of our brains, and the health of our immune systems, says Lucy Sullivan, Executive Director of 1,000 Days. Following the stats for 2014-2015 from the Tanzania Demographic Household Survey released in June this year, in stunting we re now at 34% whereas in 2010, we were at 42%; we ve solved this problem faster than in previous years. It s those in the rural areas that are most afflicted with stunting Dr Vincent Assey, Assistant Director in Nutrition at the Ministry of Health in Tanzania says.As Dr Assey points out, too many of our children are set never to have fair cognitive skills or healthy lives as their brains and immune systems are impaired from malnutrition, particularly in the rural areas.Scholastica Nguli, from Lindi region is working to change this. She says when a baby is born with malnutrition-micronutrient deficient, overweight, stunted or wasted (accounting for 5% percent of children in Tanzania), there s still a small window, till they re two years old to cure them of this problem.As the founder of the Rondo Women s Development Organisation (ROWODO), Scholastica has since 2011 been working to reduce infantile deaths caused by malnutrition; particularly child stunting and child wasting in the Rondo ward, of Lindi region. With regards to malnutrition we educate mothers, either one on one by visiting their families or by hosting talks at the maternal clinics. Here we give information on the importance of exclusive breastfeeding after giving birth, till the baby is up to six months old, she says.Teaching them to do away with the belief that when a child cries, as they see adults eating before they re six months old, means they re ready to eat foods like uji or drink water, which they are not. We also give them information on the importance of feeding infants up to two years old, with foods that have the right nutrients. We encourage the eating of cassava, mbaazi , lentils like kunde , beans, choroko and grains like ulezi that are grown locally. We also try to break old myths that say, for instance that a pregnant woman shouldn t eat eggs, adds Scholastica .I met Scholastica at the launch of the Global Nutrition Report 2016 in Dar es Salaam last month, where Vice President, Samia Suluhu was present as well as health minster, Ummy Mwalimu.Scholastica was among the members of Civil Society Organisations under the umbrella of Partnership for Nutrition in Tanzania (PANITA) to be given a hearty thank you from the Vice President.On the issue of gender equality, her organisation works to build on the capacities of the mother as she s the nurturer in the family. A mother in the village wakes up at 5 am with a bucket on her head going to find water, when she returns other morning chores await her. She then picks up the hoe with the baby on her back on her way to the farm.As she returns from the farm she comes with a load of firewood on her head and the baby on her back, where the pounding of maize awaits her or going to the machine to grind the same, when she returns she has to make ugali , wash clothes truthfully this is all too much and it impairs her from concentrating on proper nutrition for her family, the Vice President said.She went on to emphasise the importance of the kind of work Scholastica is doing, in alleviating the burden on women in the rural areas by educating them. She further urged society to assist women with household chores, so as to enable them to prepare nutritious meals for their families.Scholastica is happy that she has not heard of any under five deaths in recent years in Rondo ward, due to malnutrition. We got this news recently on July 16, when we visited the Chiponda Health Center and Mtene Clinic. Both reported that since 2015 no deaths have come from malnutrition. Our goals are now to see ourselves visiting more villages in the district. Every 3 months, her people walk for 7 to 8 kilometres to different villages, with assistance from Mr Msafiri Wanje s office- Chiponda s district commissioner and the health centres in this district, who assist in advertising her organisation s schedules for meetings with the villagers.The country s 2016/17 budget allocates Sh 500 per child for nutrition interventions, this is short of the approximately Sh 17,000 required to be on track to ending malnutrition by 2030.Email: sound.living@thecitizen.co.tz