It is believed that every child has special talents that need to be noticed and nurtured so that he or she will do well in school and in her or his later lives. Talents need openings to develop. If no opportunity arises for a skill to flourish, it may remain covered up throughout a child s formative years, after which it may be too late to develop it to its full potential.If a child has a flair for percussion, for example, it may not be set free until she gets to bash a drum kit. It s important to provide a range of opportunities for your child so that any hidden talents can emerge and blossom.Children can be introduced into different topics, games, skills and activities, and helping him to pursue them.Also children needs praise and encouragement to go a long way to develop and recognised their talents. It is good to let her know that you re proud of her abilities and show an interest in the subject of her passion whether or not you share it.Look out for opportunities for her to demonstrate her skills to friends and relatives; their support will reinforce yours.Her school teachers may be able to provide openings for her talents, too. But for serious development, you may need to invest in private tuition and other support such as courses, competitions and equipment.Here is the good example of a child who made it to the South Africa s Got Talent semi-final and was picked as a crowd-favourite to take the season s top spot.It was his father who spotted his child s talent. The toddler Oratilwe Hlongwane from Alexandra township is better known as DJ Arch Junior .On the talent show he wowed the crowd and the judges on his mixboard, getting the audience out of their seats as he dropped the beat, and upped the tempo. He basically started DJing at the age of one, his father Glen Hlongwane said. That s when we discovered he had a love for music. His father had downloaded some DJing software which the toddler started playing with. Now he s his dad s spin partner. After the performance, one of the judges, DJ Fresh said: Golden buzzer means one thing, it means that I m loving it so much that I want to send him straight to the semi-final. Well done, my boy. DJ Arch Junior has more than 53,000 fans on Facebook, and has been touted as the world s youngest DJ. He ll be doing parties with other kids, his father said. His parents started sharing videos on social media of their son DJing when they discovered his musical talent.Parents can be very important in helping their children develop their talents by working with them at home.Appart from that they can also make schools aware of their children s talents, and work with them to make sure that their children are in a program that challenges them intellectually and responds to their educational and emotional needs.