Malignancies of the blood have proved a menace throughout man s history and continue to claim lives around the globe. In my practice an oncologist, I dread with such forms of cancer but most times, I don t remember emerging out victorious in dealing with them. With groundbreaking technology, human beings have been able to land on the moon. However, finding a definite cure to these malignancies is still a far-fetched dream to this date. Blood malignancies have been divided into three types, each with its own behavior and origin. Leukemia, arises from a defect in the blood forming cells found in the bone marrow. Bone marrow is a spongy tissue found in the middle of our big bones, the cancer cells originate here. The body produces many of these cells that are defective, replacing the few normal blood cells that exist. Lymphoma, which affects the lymphatic system a system dedicated to removing extra fluid from the body and charged with production of immune cells. Myeloma, which arises from white blood cells that produce antibodies responsible for fighting infections. In myelomas, the cells can t produce the antibodies and the body is left without defense. People who have leukemia or lymphomas can present to the clinic with very non-specific symptoms which, if not careful, a doctor may miss them out. In most cases here in Tanzania, the patient can receive numerous rounds of treatment aimed at a wrong diagnosis. Failure for a doctor to spend ample time with a patient to probe the presenting symptoms and order the right investigations where they are available has led to delayed diagnosis. And for cancer, like any other disease, delays can be catastrophic. In leukemia, patients usually present with conditions related to the presence of many leukemic cells occupying the area for other cells. Hence the absence of normal cells will lead to reduced red blood cells (anemia) in the body with the patient feeling tired, breathless on exertion and reduced ability to exercise. There is also the lack of platelets causing the patient to bleed almost at any site due to failure for the blood to clot. White blood cells are also reduced significantly putting the patient at risk of a number of infections. These can be accompanied by fevers, sweats, abnormal discomforts and sometimes bone pains. Patients with Lymphomas generally report to hospital with enlarged lymph nodes, complaining of night sweats and weight loss, tiredness, abdominal discomforts and fullness. Diagnosis of leukemia and lymphomas is through good history taking and examination followed by laboratory tests that will include full blood picture and finally a bone marrow biopsy and lymph-node biopsy in case of a lymphoma. Treatment of blood cancers is centered on chemotherapy which is delivered through the vein and courses of 4 to 6 to complete cycles of treatment. Bone marrow transplant is the only modality presenting an opportunity for cure for most leukemia, a transplant that doesn t happen in Tanzania. Tanzania lacks proper facilities to handle patients with blood cancers. Blood banks usually fail to meet the demand for platelets, lack of isolation rooms in hospital for patients and the unavailability of antibiotics to treat infections.