When Angel Mulokozi, a married entrepreneur was operating her batik business at her home in Dar es Salaam s Mabwepande suburb, she didn t get any profits, and as time went on she thought of shutting her business down. But presently, her batik business has blossomed and she s managed to market it not only in Tanzania, but outside the country too, thanks to social media and other modern communication tools.Through a mobile communication platform known as WhatsApp, she sends samples of her batik designs to a customer residing in Harare Zimbabwe before getting the feedback from her esteemed customer on which type and quantity needed.Explaining how it was possible to penetrate into the Harare market, Ms Mulokozi says, In 2013, with my fellow batik makers we took part in The Women Day Show at Mnazi Mmoja in Dar es Salam. To us it was an opportunity to show what we re doing as entrepreneurs, she continues, it was a great opportunity because envoys from different nations attended as well. Making the best out of an opportunityMulokozi was a step ahead of others and she participated in the bazaar fully prepared with business cards to hand out to potential buyers. She distributed the cards to different people who arrived at the batik pavilion regardless of whether they were interested or not.When the activity ended, she went on with her normal business at Mabwepande. A few days later she received a call from Harare, an interested buyer who is a resident of Zimbabwe inquired on the different kinds of batik that Mulokozi makes and she was asked to send different types of batik she had. The simple way was to use my phone because I can access the internet so I was able to send her some samples from which she could make her preferred selection. After making her selection she ordered 100 pieces of batik, says Mulokozi.The order was the largest she had ever received since she started her business. Mulokozi, a member of UWABAMA (Association for Mabwepande Women Batik Makers) managed to fulfill her customer s needs in Harare.On the other side, Mariam Chambuso, a 59-year-old woman is eyeing the Botswana market for her batik products. Chambuso says there is a customer that showed interest in her batik products and requested some more samples through WhatsApp. My daughter s phone is capable of capturing good pictures, so it s the one I used. We are now waiting for the feedback, Chambuso, a Mburahati resident said.Expanding the marketChambuso, a widow and mother of three children says after she was enlightened with business skills which included; enhancing business skills and understanding of markets, improving quality, production safety, sales of products, creating access to better distribution channels, and overall increasing sustainable profitability, she can now see a possible market and wherever she goes, she thinks of how she can expand her market. Also, when I go for ceremonies, I take samples of batiks with my pen and notebook. I collect some contracts because I know one day they ll help me, she says.Chambuso says most members in their Mburahati group operated their business from home or as street vendors, something that either gave them very few customers or was extremely time consuming. But now she s strategic in finding a market with their more improved batik.When she was making and selling chapatti at her residence in Mburahati, Dar es Salaam, Ms Chambuso didn t manage to send her first two daughters to secondary school because she was always indebted. Her business was only for hand-to-mouth, but now she earns up to Sh 350,000 per month after being exposed to the best ways of doing business and more specifically on how to find and maintain a market.The two entrepreneurs, Chambuso and Mulokozi, are among 1,000 targeted women in the Making Markets Work for Women (MMWW) which had empowered them with different business skills. Now they understand their markets, produce quality batik which is now accepted in both local and international markets, ability to access better distribution channels, have increased sustainable profitability thanks to the initiative which is under CARE s Rema 1,000 programme.Programme for womenAt its first phase, the MMWW which aims at bringing gender equality in the community and empower women and girls economically brings together female entrepreneurs from Kinondoni and Micheweni purposely to improve their productivity and finally earn more income to reduce poverty in their families. For the Isles, the programme is focusing women who are producing spiced soaps.Victoria Maganga, Care s Programme Manager says the MMWW initiative was established after it was realised that there were three major obstacles facing many business women that have to be addressed if the aim of emancipating women and girls from extreme poverty was to be attained. The manager says most members in Care s 1,000 women in Village Savings and Loans (VSL) business groups lack business skills and have low understanding of their markets, low product quality and poor branding and lack of access to distribution channels. Business records were hardly kept by the groups, impeding the measurement of basic things like income vs expenditure, and records on stock, debtors and creditors were incomplete, Maganga noted adding that they were working on the mentioned obstacles.The 50th anniversary of College of Business Education (CBE) in Dar es Salaam didn t leave behind these batik makers who have grouped themselves from Mabwepande, Kimara, Mburahati, Makuburi, Bunju, Kariakoo, Mwananyamala and Kigamboni.It was another opportunity for the 50 members to show up to visitors who visited their pavilion and saw what they were producing. Here is where the idea of having an official facebook page came because they learned that through it, they could make their products more visible to their customers, says Maganga.Some women entrepreneurs have begun realising some fruits from this initiative as their incomes have jumped from Sh65, 000 and Sh80, 000 per month to between sh250,000 and 350,000. Maganga hopes that as they are connecting these entrepreneurs with various stakeholders, training and giving them forums for sharing experiences, all this will improve their income more which is the main goal of Care s initiative.Social media marketing According to mashable.com, social media has become a platform that is easily accessible by anyone through the Internet. Increased communication for organisations fosters brand awareness and often, improved customer service. Additionally, social media serves as a relatively inexpensive platform for organisations to implement marketing campaigns.Furthermore, Social media marketing programmes usually centre on efforts to create content that attracts attention and encourages readers to share it with their social networks.A corporate message spreads from user to user and presumably resonates because it appears to come from a trusted, third-party source, as opposed to the brand or company itself. Thus this form of marketing is driven by word-of-mouth, meaning it results in earned media rather than paid media.sgiliard@tz.nationmedia.com 