They say that cats have nine hearts in Uswaz. I agree because I have witnessed kids pelting a poor cat with rocks but defied death. Uswahilinites have ten hearts because no matter what, we wake up at the crack of dawn soaked in optimism.It won t matter even if filthy rivulets of brackish water overflowing from the nearby sewerages streaming just behind my house (eh...I mean two-roomed shack) ends inside especially during the rainy season we have learnt to live with it. There is also a Mount Kilimanjaro of a garbage damp located barely 50 metres from my window which the City Council might in future fancy marketing it as a tourist attraction.Imagine an official bragging thus about the largest and highest garbage mound in the world and tourists trooping in to see it.My eyes and my nose have learnt to ignore such filth - it becomes aesthetically beautiful after the senses get used to it. Uswahilinites throw their cares to the four winds and make merry poverty-induced disruptions notwithstanding.Again, the grain of nature also has a way of dampening the festive lifestyle of many Uswahilinites. Heavy downpours, winds, extreme heat with no fan or one that is rickety (like mine) that does its wobbly dance above our heads (I have prayed on several occasions that the damn thing does not fall off the ceiling and chop off our heads).Now that the rains of the magnitude of the days of the old geezer called Noah of the Ark have come, many other things are likely to go wrong. Roofs will be leaking such that we will literally be living in hell. We might need the skills of the Maasai dancers or pole-vault jumper to jump over the many pools that are already beginning to form in Uswaz. As I said earlier, this does not dampen the collective mood in Uswaz. People are always feasting in celebration for this or the other. Hussein the wag s daughter just graduated from girlhood to womanhood even though she is hardly twelve. There is music and dance to celebrate the successful passage. I am watching through the window as women outdo one another gyrating to drumming, raising dust with their feet. Men too are not left of it. Some can outdo the women.The girl is coy. She has been kept inside a house under intense training in god-knows-what. Since what goes on in that hallowed ritual is a woman s secret, I may not be able to tell. What matters is that symbolically, this girl whose age similar to that of my daughter Jenny is ripe for marriage -- some cultures! Having been indoors for several weeks with oil generously applied on her skin, she literally looks more like a ripe tomato.