There is now a consensus that the government should substantially revise the Access to Information Bill, 2016. Media stakeholders, rights activists and politicians of all persuasions have unanimously concluded that in its current state, the Bill cannot be passed without posing the risks of undermining Tanzanians right to access public information.They are also recognising that if it sees the light of day as it is, the Act will be an enormous burden on a generation that should be partaking in the fruits of the information age.The case for revision of the Bill has been strong since last year when the government was forced to shelve it and allow for wider consultations. It got even stronger last week, as lawmakers converged in Dodoma to embark on the two-week legislative journey in the National Assembly. As it becomes clearer that access to information is a right not a priviledge, the urgency of reconsidering some shady sections of the Bill rises.The issue now is not whether the government should pass the Access to Information Bill but what the framework should be. Profound questions are raised by provisions in Part II, sections 5and 6.For example, while the proposed piece of legislation should help people access information, this right may be restricted by provisions in Section 5 that seem to give information officers too much power in terms of who, how, and when to release what they deem to be in the public interest. MPs last week argued that leaving information seekers at the mercy of information officers is tantamount to selling what is supposed to be public information to the highest bidder. The need for discretion to safeguard national security, notwithstanding, there is still need for transparency, lest the government scores an own goal.There are also concerns over a provision that would allow responsible officers to take up to 30 days to respond to requests for information. This reduces the desire to acquire information to a lengthy and cumbersome procedure.Trapped in a time warpLest we remain trapped in a time warp waiting 30 days to get answers in this fast-paced digital age defies logic. Searching knowledge in the modern world is a major shift from the traditional, bureaucratic ways of old to one where lives and economies survive on information that Click! Click! comes just like that.The ease with which we acquire information on anything today is a modern miracle. It s the sheer brute force of technology that made smartphones information palaces. In other words, information cannot be delayed let alone hidden not anymore. Any attempt at doing so in this age tends to backfire. Here are two trending examples to prove why.Closer to home, information on the president s health in Zimbabwe (just like it is in many parts of the world) is meant to a closely-guarded secret. But for a techno-savvy generation, it s no longer the case. For anyone who knows where the world s oldest head of state normally goes for medical treatment, all it takes to speculate is a flight tracking app on their phones, which is now used to follow the president s movements.And in the US, trouble is far from over for former secretary of state Hillary Clinton whose attempt at turning public information into private continues to haunt her presidential dream.The former US first lady exclusively used a private email account and private server from 2009 to 2013 while she was secretary of state. This was despite rules on preserving and archiving material generated by government work.Though it seems she is off the hook for now, the Democratic presidential aspirant has since been chided for not only exposing classified information to Chinese and Russian hackers, but also for depriving Americans of the right to access what was supposed to be public information. Her rival too, Republican Donald Trump has been heavily criticised for non-disclosure of tax records. He reportedly becomes the first US presidential candidate from a major party in four decades to not release tax returns. It is not required by law, but US voters have come to expect it. So, calls for the Republican nominee to do so have grown stronger recently. Is this a demonstration of what access to information truly means for shaping political discourse and governance?Back to the Bill, considering what a Herculean task it is attempting to sift what goes out to the public, it s a no-brainer what the proposed law should do. Admittedly, there is need for clear rules and (acceptable) procedures, but if passed into law, these proposals should make it even easier for all and sundry to access public information.By doing this, the government scores a double: Firstly, it quenches the thirst for knowledge that tens of millions of Tanzanian citizens have. One only needs to see and feel the passion with which millions still religiously follow parliamentary proceedings and budget sessions to understand the quest for information in this country.In many other African countries, government budgets and parliamentary sessions have become a non-event. They come and go without whetting the appetite of politics-weary citizens. It s a different case in Tanzania and the government has a rare opportunity to take advantage of this. Which brings me to my second point.While politics thrives on rumours and half-truths, development chokes at these two. The Fifth Phase Government started off well on a path to restore sanity accountability, performance, morality, you name it in the public service. And in its crusade against corruption and tax evasion, President Magufuli s government will not survive without the goodwill of the people.Enjoy this goodwillIt can only enjoy this goodwill and realise the much-needed quick progress when the people have access to public information. One does not need to be a communications professor to understand that information helps build trust whether it s in a love relationship, or between governments and its citizens.All over the world, people with information find it easy to exercise their rights. They hold decision makers to account. They reduce corruption. They make more informed choices. For the government then, the Hapa Kazi Tu agenda must focus on empowering people through information about their rights to hold it to account (for correctional purposes) where it errs, and support it where it takes the right direction.The Access to Information Bill is an opportunity. It shouldn t be a threat to anyone, not the least to journalists who work under difficult conditions trying to squeeze information from suspicious politicians and public officials. These are times for deeper soul searching.Daniel Muhau is a revise editor with The Citizen