When Asha* lost her father, her mother got married to another man. However things didn t turn out well for her because the man she respected turned out to be someone else. Asha, a Form 3 student at Zanaki Girls Secondary School in Dar es Salaam says that she was happy to have a father figure in her life, but a few months later, her step father started to act strange when he was around her. I never took it seriously until one day when he forced me to sleep with him. I was lucky to escape the attempt, but I knew I had to do something about it and that was to tell my mother about it, she explains.She went further saying that, though she wasn t sure how her mother would take it, she gave herself some courage. She goes on, I told my mother everything and to my surprise, she was on my side. She empathised with me and told me that she would take care of the situation. My mother kept her promise. Asha openly shared her experience with 24 other girls from Jangwani, Makongo and Zanaki Secondary School aged between 13 up to 16 who participated in an event organised by Soma Book Caf under a project named Thubutu last week. Thubutu is a Swahili word that means To dare . The girls were joined by women empowerment activists and talked about a number of issues affecting their welfare including equal rights among youth, issues affecting development of a girl child and gender base violence.Johari Salum a Form 4 student from Jangwani says, This has been an eye opener for me, I have learnt so much about how important it is to speak openly when I face abuse. We have been told not to feel ashamed; to speak when things like that happen. I will surely be a good ambassador to other girls, says Johari. On her part, Careen Manumbuza a student from Zanaki said it is important for girls to learn how important it is for them to speak up so as to get rid of traditions and customs which undermine them. We are students now but one day we will be mothers, having our own families in the future. We are also responsible citizens in our own communities. Understanding how powerful it is to speak up gives us the confidence to value our gender as women. That way, we are empowered to make changes to whatever we want to as we have power to do so. Founder and Manager of Soma Book Caf , Demere Kitunga said the project is aimed at empowering girls to be courageous in letting their voices be heard by speaking out loud on things that affect them. There are many things that affect teenage girls. The environment they grow in shape them to believe that they are supposed to behave in a certain way or do certain things so as to avoid bad things to happen to them, she explains and adds, however, it is unfortunate that sometimes, despite all their effort in doing what the society has expected them to do, bad things still happen to them. We need to change this narrative, what happens to them is not always their fault and highly inexcusable. Janet Mawinza, an activist based in Dar es Salaam, explains that there are those few whom she has personally escorted to the police and reported on violence done upon them. They are very courageous. However, many are not willing to speak out. In a way, parents not being close to their children contributes to why girls hesitate to speak out. Discussing on best ways to overcome such challenges Zahra Tunda from University of Dar es salaam is of the opinion that such matters need to be discussed from a tender age. We need to teach our children when they are still young to speak up when someone does something wrong or touches their body inappropriately instead of just wait until they mature. The world has changed and so we need to be cautions and be open on issues affecting the young generation, she says.On her part, Ussu Mallya a feminist activist and coach from Tanzania Gender Networking Programme (TGNP) says that more initiatives like these are needed to raise awareness on poor customs and traditions that we are accustomed to which impose on having power over a woman s body. We need to understand various things which make members of the society think they have the power over a woman s body. There are beliefs that make girls feel shy of their bodies. That is why even when a girl is raped, she feels ashamed to speak out because she is afraid of how the society will react, she notes. Ussu says that it is high time to have discussions on the importance of a woman s body and the respect it deserves. It s unfortunate that if a woman doesn t act the way the society expects her to then she will be forced to do things against her will either through marriage or being blamed and at the end she misses a lot of opportunities in her life as a woman, she says.She further states that it is also high time to engage young men in discussion focusing on issues that force them to believe they have power against women. And it should be done while they are still young so that it can be easy to shape their minds away from beliefs that society has created on how men should treat women.Irene Malongo from Msichana Initiative says the society should look back and see who in the community was engaged in raising children. When I was growing up, we believed that one persons child belongs to the community. The whole community was responsible. However, with time that seems not to be the case anymore. Parents are raising their own children behind closed doors. So when the society sees that a child is misbehaving, they are afraid to correct them for they are not sure how a child s parents would react. We need to let the society be engaged in raising each other s child like it used to be so that we can save the children from harm, explains Irene.ekibakaya@tz.nationmedia.com