Dar es Salaam. Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa will grace the closing ceremony of the U-17 Airtel Rising Stars national finals on Sunday. The closing event, which will be coloured by processions, traditional dances and the final match, will be held at Karume Memorial Stadium in the afternoon. Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) technical director Salum Madadi said: We are all upbeat as we look forward to the closing ceremony. The coming of the Prime Minister is definitely a morale booster to all of us players, officials and the sponsor, said Madadi. The national finals embracing 12 girls and boys teams which started on Tuesday, enters the semifinal stage tomorrow with Dar es Salaam teams being highly primed to qualify for the final game which will be witnessed by the premier. Apart from addressing the aspiring football youngsters, Majaliwa will hand over prizes to champions of the talent-scouting tournament, which has made a difference on the face of Tanzanian football with clubs, national youth teams being dominated by players identified from the event. Regions taking part in this year s tournament are Temeke, Ilala, Kinondoni, Mbeya, Morogoro and Mwanza (Boys) while Temeke, Ilala, Kinondoni, Arusha, Lindi and Zanzibar have entered girls. In the meantime, Kinondoni Boys have qualified for the semi-finals after beating Mbeya 2-1 in a closely contested match played at Karume Memorial Stadium yesterday. The match was preceded by a girls match in which Kinondoni crushed visiting Lindi 10-0. Striker Prisca Bahela was a constant menace in Lindi s territory and managed to score five goals alone. She scored in the 16th, 20th, 25th, 75th and 76th minutes while the rest were scored by Isabela John in the 7th and 19th minute, Mwantum Ramadhani and Veronica Mapunda in the 68rd and 74th respectively. Kinondoni boys got their goals through Shaban Maguli in the 14 minute following a cross from Marco Muhiru. Until half time Kinondoni were leading 1-0. The second half started on a quick note and Kinondoni scored the second goal in the 57 when Salum Yohana capitalized on a nice pass from Hassan Kipera. He dribbled past defenders before slotting the ball home. Mbeya pulled one back in the 77th minute through Pius Crinton who connected into the net a corner from Ernest Kamange.