Dar es Salaam. Sudden Cardiac Death (SCD) is almost always on Dr Innocent Mosha s mind whenever he is carrying out post-mortem examination on a case of person who is reported to have died suddenly and unexpectedly at home, away from hospital. In most events of abrupt loss of life, SCD is the first thing we suspect to have caused it, unless there are other forensic complexities that were reported before the death occurred, he says.Medically, SCD is the sudden loss of heart function. Dr Mosha, who is also a researcher, says that the increasing trend of heart diseases in the country is to blame.The World Health Organization (WHO) defines sudden death as that occurring within 24 hours of an abrupt change in one s previous clinical status. Dr Mosha explains that SCDs are becoming more common among the cases of sudden death that are reported at the Muhimbili National Hospital s Forensic Pathology Laboratory where he works. Sometimes, relatives of the deceased tend not to believe it when we release the post-mortem findings. They may not have detected the heart problem earlier until their loved-one died suddenly, says the MNH s Head of Forensic Pathology.At times, he points out, they deal with police cases such as poisoning, home accidents and those who die in violence but cardiovascular problems are what causes most deaths.Speaking to Your Health last week, Emmanuel Kavishe, 35, a resident of Mbezi in Dar es Salaam said that he was still trying to come to terms with the sudden loss of his mother, Rose Kavishe, who was 60 when she died in her sleep about a month ago.This, according to experts, is known as Sudden Unexpected Death Syndrome (SUDS). Scientists say it occurs as a result of the body s failure to accurately coordinate electrical signals responsible for the control of heart beats and blood flow. Mom never complained of having a headache or fever or any ailment. She wasn t ill. She went to bed like any other night. She was dead in the morning, says Emmanuel who is the third born to the deceased. When her body was examined at the hospital, doctors did not give a definite cause of death. Until today, all we know is that she died in her sleep and that s all, says Emmanuel.However, Dr Mosha says that dying in your sleep without any prior signs of illness may happen but it s rare. Although there has been a lot of research on SUDS, scientists have not been able to determine the exact cause.Some societies in Tanzania have often blamed cases of sudden death on witchcraft, but according to doctors who work in rural areas where superstitious beliefs are rife, sudden deaths can be attributed to lack of facilities to diagnose some ailments early.Dr Nzagi Matobera, a Medical Officer at Nyamagana Hospital in Mwanza Region, believes that rural people live with underlying heart problems for a long period without knowing that they are ill. There are health facilities [in rural areas] where patients blood sugars are not recorded or their blood pressure readings never taken due to lack of diagnostic facilities, says Dr Nzagi and adds, Many public health programmes have largely emphasized on the control of infectious diseases but not Non-communicable Diseases. People die of diseases that they could have diagnosed early. The WHO estimates that more than 1 in 3 adults globally have high blood pressure (Hypertension) and the other bad news is that the problem still remains largely hidden.Medical experts have always warned that a longstanding history of hypertension can lead to complications which eventually cause sudden death, especially if left unchecked.Dr Heri Tungaraza from Muhimbili National Hospital explains, When high blood pressure levels are high, the small blood vessels in the brain can be damaged and that can eventually lead to stroke, he says.Early in January this year, a study published in the Wiley-Blackwell Online Open Journal, recommended sustainable interventions in reducing deaths and disability caused by stroke in Tanzania. Case fatality rates are also higher than reported in high-income countries, with post-stroke disability a significant predictor of death, reads the study titled, Case-fatality and disability in the Tanzanian Stroke Incidence Project cohort. The Director of Cardiology at the Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute, Dr Peter Kisenge warns that sudden deaths especially those caused by heart attack are likely to rise due to people s indulgence in physical inactivity and unhealthy eating. There is great need for people to do regular medical checkups keeping records of their blood sugar levels, knowing if their blood pressure is stable and learning how to stay fit, he recommends.He said that people aged 55 and above are facing a high risk of developing a heart attack and dying suddenly due to a condition known medically as Myocardial Infarction (MI).The common symptoms of Myocardial Infarction are chest pain, shortness of breath, feeling weak and overwhelming feeling of anxiety. The chest can feel like it is being pressed or squeezed by a heavy object, and pain can radiate from the chest to the jaw, neck, arms and back, he says.Dr Kisenge says that this illness is heavily associated with Coronary Heart Disease (CHD) which occurs mostly in adults. It occurs when blood supply to the heart becomes suddenly blocked. A blood clot in the blood vessels leading to the heart can cause poor supply of blood to the heart and this can seriously damage the heart muscle and result into sudden death, he says.Heart attacks can also occur in youth, especially cigarette smokers. Smoking damages the lining of the arteries, leading to a buildup of fatty material (atheroma) which narrows the artery and causes a heart attack or a stroke.Dr confirms that they sometimes, receive patients aged below 39 who are diagnosed with the ailment. Patients with diabetes and high blood pressure complications are also at high risk of developing a heart attack while cigarette accounts for 36 percent and obesity accounts for only 20 percent, he says. It is estimated that out of 32 million people globally who are diagnosed with a heart attack, at least 12.5 million people die because of it, he says and explains further that some of the ways to prevent a heart attack is either by using medication to dissolve blood clots or performing a surgical procedure to help restore blood to the heart.Other studies done in the country show that infectious diseases such as Tuberculosis have caused sudden death among people but that was discovered during post mortem examination.One study, titled: High prevalence of tuberculosis diagnosed during autopsy examination at Muhimbili National Hospital, suggested the need for including post-mortem data in reporting the TB burden. There is a high number of TB cases diagnosed after death that could not be detected before they died, reads the study published three years ago in the PubMed Journal.Avoiding sudden deathReduce your heart s workload and relieve coronary heart disease symptoms. Take all medicines regularly, as your doctor prescribes.Don t change the amount of your medicine or skip a dose unless your doctor tells you to. You should still follow a heart-healthy lifestyle, even if you take medicines to treat your coronary heart disease.Other treatments for coronary heart disease such as percutaneous coronary intervention, also known as coronary angioplasty, or coronary artery bypass grafting also may lower your risk for cardiac arrest.Coronary Heart Disease (CHD) seems to be the cause of most cardiac arrests in adults. CHD is also a major risk factor for angina (chest pain or discomfort) and heart attack, and it contributes to other heart problems.Following a heart-healthy lifestyle can help you lower your risk for CHD, Cardiac arrest, and other heart problems.