Nairobi. Don t you hear? Kwani husikii? That is probably the worst thing one can say to a person with a hearing impairment. In fact, never make fun of a person s disability. But then, don t have too much pity on them. As one who grew up being told that but got so used to it that I now actually smile back, I know first-hand what stigma does to a person. Worse when coming from a close person such as a relative, friend, lover or colleague. I am hard of hearing but was brought up as a normal child. I did everything little boys do including mischief, for which I was handed the same length of the cane as anyone else. My mother never gave me a bigger plate of food than my siblings. Attended regular schools I attended regular schools and churches without aid, as I did all gatherings. In the classroom, or even at training sessions and meetings, I sit in front. Once a supervisor asked me if I had a hearing problem when he noticed that I sometimes floated at meetings or often asked him to repeat something. My playmates were the regular village boys and girls. The only thing that would occasionally ruin my day and still does was when a playmate laughingly pointed out that I hadn t heard something, and they all laughed at me. Or I missed a joke, and so wore an expressionless face as everybody else was on the floor in peals of laughter. It was my paternal uncle who discovered my challenge.He used to wear watches and I liked to put my ear to the watch and listen to the tic-toc . When he told my parents, they took me to various hospitals. I later learnt that doctors recommended corrective surgery but, out of love or fear or whatever it was, my parents flatly refused. I have had a strenuous study and working life, especially when I had to listen to a speaker who was a bit too far from me or spoke too softly. I ended up hating meetings, hence avoiding them as much as I could and sometimes getting into trouble for it. No whispering Whispering in the ear is a no-no; so I ve ended up missing out on gossip which I don t crave anyway. What hurts, however, is when one misses out on a romantic whisper, or the first words by one s baby or grandchild. I readily concede if I actually didn t hear something and mess up. But not once have I ever given the excuse that I should be given special preference. I tried to be the tough man that society demands that I be. However, just when I thought I was coping, someone whom I respect a lot told me without mincing words, that I was doing myself an injustice by not seeking help. But I have managed for a lifetime, I asked myself, why should I wear a hearing aid at my age? However, there comes a time. So I had to accept my condition and act on it. When I set out to seek help I was shocked at the level of neglect indifference even that people with hearing impairments face. For instance, not many can afford a hearing aid. The gadgets are quite expensive and are not covered by insurance including the public-funded National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF). Although I used to, at some point, top the class and shine in my work, I believe if I had all my hearing intact I would have been more successful. When you don t hear properly, you miss out on many things, meaning you lag behind the rest or have to put in extra effort to catch up with them. I advise those with hearing impairment and parents and guardians of children who are deaf or hard of hearing to seek help. They should register with National Council for Persons with Disability (NCPWD) for help.I regret having discovered my folly quite late (hopefully not too late) in life. Had I known, I would have acquired a hearing aid a long time ago. But then, stigma wouldn t let me. I often wondered what people would say. Not anymore. I want to hear everything. Properly. As I should. Mr Marete is a senior sub-editor with the Daily Nation.