When transparency is well applied at family level, joy and prosperity will be abode in such families, and this is what Daniel Paul and Ester Masunga-a couple living with HIV/AIDS in Kishapu, Shinyanga are experiencing.Despite of a changed timetable from going to his farm for cultivation to regular hospital trips and spending a lot of time at home sleeping, Daniel didn t have the slightest idea he could be infected with HIV. According to him, he was frequently coughing with endless chest pains. He could no longer work on his farm but only depended on his wife, Ester Masunga, for the family s upkeep. Elders in Kishapu village told me that I was bewitched and so they advised me to see traditional healers. I did as they advised, says the 41-year-old father of two adding that, despite receiving traditional medicine treatment, my health continued to deteriorate by the day. I later decided to seek medical advice at the Kishapu Health Centre, he says.It was in 2006 when Daniel found out he was HIV positive. The viral load test showed a 31 CD4 count, meaning his immune was very low. This was revealed after Daniel was referred to Shinyanga Regional Hospital for further checkup.The news did not come as a big shock to him but Daniel s fear was how he was going to break the news to his wife. She had told him before that she would commit suicide if she ever got infected with HIV.Openness, a family saviorDaniel kept the HIV test results to himself for a whole two months as he pondered on how he would share the news with his wife. But he realised the silence had to come to an end and decided he was not going to keep his status a secret anymore. I told her the truth. I encouraged her by insisting that being HIV positive was not the end of life. I accompanied her to the hospital for a test where she also tested positive. She wasn t shocked that much because of the great job I had done of encouraging her, Daniel says.At this time, the couple had a daughter, Angeline, who is now a form two student at Kishapu Secondary School. The couple had no plans to have another child after they tested positive for HIV.According to the couple, everyone served as a watchdog to the other in making sure they took their ARVs on time. After seven years of taking ARVs without fail, doctors told us we could now safely have a child because my CD4 count was high, says Ester.The couple now has a two-year-old son Arnold who is HIV negative, thanks for the existing transparency between Daniel and Ester. Otherwise we would have had an HIV-infected child who might even have died had I continued hiding to my wife about my health status, Daniel says.Now Daniel and Ester are on the Tanzania Red Cross Society (TRCS) programme of educating Kishapu residents who are living with HIV/AIDS about nutrition and economic empowerment through Village Community Banks (VICOBA).Ester Tungu, a mother of eight, is also living with HIV/AIDS. The resident of Negezi Village in Kishapu is married to a man who is also HIV positive.Tungu was pregnant with her sixth child when her first husband died in 2008. She did not know he had died of Aids until when she tested positive at the ante-natal clinic at Negezi dispensary. My husband s relatives knew he was HIV positive but they were not transparent about my husband s health. They said he had been bewitched though traditional medicine did not cure him. He was shifted to hospital when traditional medicine failed but it was too late to save his life. He passed away in 2008, says Tangu, who works as a vegetable vendor.She realised she was pregnant three months after her husband s death and hence started attending ante-natal clinic where she had to undergo routine HIV testing. The results showed she was HIV positive. My health was good by then. But the reality was that I had the Aids virus, she says.Dating a man with HIVIn 2008, after Tungu learnt she had HIV, she agreed to join Matumaini Group, which is under care of Community Social Worker Mary Mashinji. The group was formed by TRCS aiming to educate, counsel and empower people living with HIV.Matumaini group members also support each other when their fellow faces economic challenges. The group is a centre for information from government on HIV/AIDS matters.After she delivered, Tungu started dating Jeremiah Ikombe, a man living with HIV. We knew that we were both HIV positive. There was nothing to hide and I think our openness is a factor in having safe and healthy babies, says Tungu.It was 49-year-old Ikombe who asked Tungu to marry him. Health workers advised us to practice safe sex hence we used condoms until when we decided to have a baby. We now have two babies together, says Ikombe whose first wife left him with their child after she realised he was HIV positive.According to him, his former wife wasn t ready to face the reality. He says being open gives couples confidence. He advises couples to be open as he did because it helps couples to face challenges arising from HIV infection. We support each other in finding bread for our children and reminding each other as to when to take our drugs. This is because we are faithful, open and accountable to each other, says the husband.Telling the childrenEster Tungu and her husband, Jeremiah Ikombe say that extending their transparency to children about their health status has brought positive change in their family. I know the impact of hiding this infection (HIV/AIDS), says Tungu as she recalls the demise of her first husband. He and his relatives were not open. He died too young leaving me with the burden of taking care of five children and an unborn child, she adds.Due to her past experience, the mother of eight has nothing to hide from her children about her health status. She has however revealed it to only those who are old enough to understand the news.She says because of that openness, her children are very supportive and that they remind her to take her ARV tablets. They also cook her nutritious food, thanks to TRCS teaching manual on how and what to eat for good health.Musa Msabila, a Shinyanga town resident and his wife are HIV/AIDS positive. Their daughter always reminds them to take their tablets. She knows that every day at 7:30am and 19:30pm we take ARVs. She is very supportive, says a father of two insisting that he will not tell her about his HIV status until she reaches the age of 18.Paul Daniel echoed the same saying his form II daughter Angeline knows that her parents are sick but does not know the nature of their disease. Paul says Angeline is not big enough to be told about her parents health status.Importance of breaking the silence EngenderHealth s champion Project in Tanzania ran a Break the Silence campaign aiming at provoking and promoting a national dialogue about gender roles.According to EngenderHealth website, the lack of communication often leads couples to seek other partners outside their relationship, increasing the risk of HIV for all involved. In teaching couples how to be more open in communicating about health, sex, financial issues, and other matters, the goal is to positively impact their health and well-being .Commenting on the matter, Dr Jonas Kagwisage says transparency is key to happiness especially to those living with HIV/AIDS.Dr Kagwisage says, even children should know the parents status because, they become more supportive and remind them on the time to take medicine. The doctor adds that there is no recommended age for children to be told about the matter but insisted that the earlier the better. 