Dar es Salaam. The proprietor of Mbowe Hotels, Mr Freeman Mbowe, has criticised the National Housing Corporation (NHC) claiming it is politicising his relations with the state firm over the ownership of a structure in a city prime location.Mr Mbowe told journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday that reports that he owed NHC Sh1.17 billion in unpaid rent were untrue as he has been a co-owner of the building for nearly two decades.The businessman, who also doubled as the national chairman of the main Opposition Chadema, said this yesterday when NHC auctioneers, for a second day running, continued to attach properties which were in the building that houses the famous Bilicanas Club and Tanzania Daima newspaper, both owned and operated by Mr Mbowe.Towards the end of last month, NHC director general Nehemia Mchechu said the firm has given Mr Mbowe one week to pay the rent arreas or risk having his properties attached. True to his words, on Thursday auctioneers went to the premises and started removing properties.During the operation on Thursday, the head of debts collection unit in NHC, Mr Japhet Mwanasenga, said Mr Mbowe owed the State firm a total of Sh1.17 billion in unpaid rent since the 1990s. We have tolerated him for a long time. We need that money to inject in other Corporation s projects, he said.But Mr Mbowre refuted the claims noting that he was not a tenant in the building in question claiming that he owns it by 75 per cent since 1997. I owe NHC nothing. They are doing this to exorcise. This is nothing but politics at play, he said. He said all this has been happening to him because as an Opposition leader he has been firm against the government s repressive measures against democracy. If NHC seeks to collect its debts, how many people and institutions owe NHC, how come they only picked Mbowe? he asked.He wondered saying even if there was a debt that his firm had not paid, why did NHC choose to remove the properties while they have the powers to attach the properties by locking them inside. I started owning part of this building in 1997 when I was not an MP or a Chadema chairman. This is purely dirty politics. Why don t they want to respect contracts and other legal agreements? he asked.