 Ngoja leo watanijua na mimi nimetoka America. Like duuuh -Upendo with an exaggerated hand gesture. A bunch of young ladies in their early 20 s, are exiting a super market situated in the affluent neighborhoods of Oysterbay.Upendo is totally convinced to fit in, in this area she ought to look the part of a successful young woman by dishing out a western accent with English. So she was confidently and desperately searching for the hip words to utter loudly so on this day, in this moment she too was-what?I ve found long straight hair won t scrub it away; peppered British accents don t mean it ll sway. Using the fork and knife won t destroy the markers, even as you bleach your skin to erode your melanin. The evidence still remains; you re a cocoa child born with a DNA whose destiny comes from atrocious acts, against its existence.Is it possible ?One of my favorite quotes comes from acclaimed African American author Toni Morrison, Freeing yourself was one thing, claiming ownership of that freed self was another. from her novel Beloved.See if Africa were to stop trading with the world, economies would collapse as we re one of the biggest suppliers of raw materials to industries from China to Canada. Now you d think this earns us respect, just think of the hustle we go through to obtain a VISA to the USA or Europe. While citizens of the same countries, can decide today to come visit Africa day after tomorrow with little obstacles.Why is it we re still the beggars of the world, that Upendo in her own backyard feels to exude the aura of success. She needs to speak a foreign language with a foreign accent. I ve often thought, this guise of NGO s from the western world helping our continent. Should be stripped of its false modesty and openly be mandated as the reparations for the crimes against humanity that were committed for centuries on this continent. Crimes including the stealing of huge swaths of raw materials that helped take most of these developed nations to the wealth they enjoy today.Is it worth it..?However as Toni Morrison points out, the challenge really rests with us Africans now spread all over the world, most of us still sleeping with the abuse. That sees Afro-Latino s with the biggest un-employment rates in their countries, African American men populating prisons of the USA. African natives being chased out of their land like the Bodi, Kwegu and Mursi tribes in Ethiopia, due to corporations mired in profit. That benefits a small percentage of the African population and more so foreign investors in this case from China and Italy.Most Africans share a pain that doesn t vacate in a day for its etched in our DNA. Which is why we run from ourselves and when we re brave enough to look at the truths of our histories, we buckle at the unfairness of it all. Thankfully we don t have to face it alone; we can abolish the tactics of divide and rule by truly linking hands.We can accept the help; happily challenge the advice of those Caucasian &amp; Middle Eastern NGO &amp; Corporation workers, who are honestly working to develop Africa, knowing deep down they re mending the wrongs of their great grand fathers. Going against these efforts by resorting to corruption and or blind resistance is resurrecting the oppressor from the past to today s minutes.You see, Upendo needs to be able to go to a supermarket in an affluent neighborhood of her city. Then hear so much Kiswahili in various accents of Chagga, Sukuma, Zaramo &amp; Haya from successful women of cocoa skin shopping. That she ll proudly pronounce sentences in Kiswahili, gaily confide in her friends. Ngoja na mimi nipate kazi, sho mtanikoma. Na mimi na vikonkoliko vyangu mtaona najipitisha na kibegi nikiunua zaidi ya haya maji. Huku na nukia na marashi ya wabunifu wakubwa kama Channel . As I always say we re all born single and shall meet our death recount by our single some, why not be honest.