I buy pizza from a certain restaurant because I am looking for a certain satisfaction. However, the case is different when I go to see a doctor at a clinic. There is need for patients seeking healthcare services to think of value for money as they pop into clinics. But, that requires an understanding of how the business around healthcare services operates.If you go shopping, the items you purchase will surely depend on your ability to pay and the burgaining. This is not always the case when you go to the hospital, despite the fact that you will have to pay for the healthcare services rendered to you. Buying and selling healthcare services is an act that most people don t believe can be similar to the way other commodities and services are exchanged.To most of us, the word market is taken as the place where one goes to sell and buy things like foods, clothes, and utensil and so on. Healthcare economists will tell you that the word Market is a situation where buyers and sellers interact to trade goods or services. In a health perspective, buyers are patients, sick people and sellers include hospitals, doctors and pharmacists.It s tricky on the healthcare market since it can be viewed as a human right while others can view it as consumption good and others as an investment. Healthcare markets theoretically have actors and market aspects like other traditional commodity markets. There are aspects like competition, information processing, price determination and distributions of services.We have to agree that the way healthcare markets operate is quite different from traditional commodity markets. For instance, we normally don t consume healthcare services to meet our satisfactions as sick people but all we aim at is to maintain good health.A healthcare service is not marketable product as commodity product and thus it cannot be exchanged among consumers. The way information is exchanged in healthcare service market is completely uneven. Information exchange is one the crucial aspects in any market. Degree of information accessibility between buyer and seller is much of a concern.Health economists have categorized healthcare markets into a group of market failure only because it doesn t follow theoretical principles of free market. In healthcare markets, doctors find themselves knowing more about the disease and treatment compared to patients.The bad side of this is that a doctor determines demand for healthcare services. This is sometimes called supplier induced-demand. This aspect doesn t happen in commodity markets as in commodity market- demand is driven by market forces, including prices of commodities.Some doctors with profit-motive may order more services contrary to the needs thus increasing financial burden to patients-consumers. This is frequently encountered in private healthcare practices.Adverse selection and moral hazards happen also in healthcare service market. Let s take a look at health insurance companies. Adverse selection happens when poor healthy people buy more insurance than healthy people leading to losses.With the moral hazards am talking about, people covered use more healthcare services and thus inefficient use of resources. As we have seen previously, patient s ability to make rational decision about their treatment modality does not exist in healthcare service market.In commodity markets, a consumer can make his/her rational decisions and best judgments to maximize utility. In healthcare service markets- not all health providers-hospitals have profit motives. Studies show that many actors in healthcare markets have many other motives different from profit motive. The case is different in commodity market as the main goal of the seller/supplier is to make profit.Competitions do exist of course in healthcare market but not in similar manners as in commodity market. The healthcare market competition is characterized by monopoly of big hospitals. This is predominantly attributed by factors such as economies of scales and economies of scope.Degree of government intervention in healthcare market is high. This is due to the fact that healthcare is a right and the government is particularly concerned with issues of equity healthcare. This makes a great difference between healthcare markets and commodity markets.The author is a doctor ,Pursuing an MBA at St Augustine University of Tanzania (SAUT).