Dar es Salaam. The Stanbic Bank and Puma Energy Dar Open Golf Tournament tees off today at the Lugalo Golf course with over 100 golfers scheduled to participate.The Tanzania Golf Union (TGU) is using the tournament to select the national team to feature in the East and Central Africa championship scheduled to be held in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia in October.TGU chairman Joseph Tango said yesterday all clubs in Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar would feature in the 36-hole event. Tango named the clubs as Dar Gymkhana Club, Moshi Club, TPC, Arusha Gymkhana Club, Klimanjaro Club of Arusha, Morogoro Gymkhana Club and Misenyi of Kagera Region. The clubs will be represented by both amateur and professional male and female division A, B and C and juniors totaling 150 golfers. Also in the event are senior golfers, he said. We expect this to be a thrilling event by virtue of the large numbers of golfers from all over the country, who will compete for prizes from the sponsors, Stanbic Bank and Puma Energy. Stanbic Bank head of corporate and investment banking Thomas Bisonga said they had decided to support the game because of their involvement in the promotion of social activities in the country. This is part of the bank s initiatives in bringing together with our clients who feature in the game, said Bisonga.Bisonga said he would like to see golf in Tanzania attaining a higher level of development to make it more competitive. He said the bank is committed to sports development in the country and believe through their involvement, the game will attain the highest development.Puma Energy general manager Philippe Corsaletti also said they were committed to the development of golf, and their target was to see the game played everywhere in the country. Many think that golf is for rich people, it is not true. Our firm is ready to support the game from the grassroots level, and generate as many golfers as possible for the benefit of the nation, said Corsaletti.He promised that today s tournament will see some outstanding action from some of the best golfers the country has.