Arusha. Strife-torn South Sudan formally joined the East African Community (EAC) yesterday as the sixth member, pledging peace and stability. We are happy to join EAC and we commit ourselves to become a stable and credible member, said Mr. Aggrey Tisa Sabuni, a special advisor to President Salva Kiir, as he handed over the Instrument of Ratification to the secretary general Liberat Mfumukeko. He said despite the recent clashes in Juba between the government troops and forces loyal to the former vice president Riek Machar, his government was looking forward for a peaceful solution to the crisis so that it can play its rightful role in EAC matters. The shooting war is over. We are now consolidating a new arrangement in the transitional national government, he told journalists after depositing the Instrument of Ratification at the EAC headquarters in the presence of senior officials from the partner states and the secretariat. Referring to a peace agreement signed between the government and SPLM-IO last October and which saw Dr. Machar back to Juba to reclaim his position, Mr. Sabuni said it was regrettable that the agreement broke down, leading to deadly clashes in Juba in July. However, he played down the exit of Dr. Machar, saying the former vice president had already been replaced by the members of his team in the opposition who negotiated for the peace deal signed in Addis Ababa and which brought a semblace of peace to the war-torn country. The special envoy of President Kiir appeared to avoid questions on the fragile situation in his country and the role Dr. Machar would play in bringing a lasting peace but insisted that the fleeing of the latter should not be a matter of concern because the SPLM-IO was still a key partner in the transitional government now in control in Juba. Dr Machar was initially reported to have fled to the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and later to Khartoum, Sudan for medical treatment.Ever since he had been replaced by Taban Deng Gai as the first vice president of South Sudan, a slot reserved to SPLM-IO under the Addis peace deal. Mr.Sabuni, who led a team of five senior officials from Juba, registered his government s gratitude and appreciation to the EAC partner states and the Arusha-based secretariat for its finally admitting it in the bloc. We do fully appreciate the goodwill of all leaders in EAC, he said. It was at exactly 9:42 am that the Instrument of Ratification was handed over to Mr. Mfumukeko, signalling formal admission of the country, which gained independence only five years ago, into the bloc. He added that South Sudan would benefit from enormous trade and economic opportunities that exist in the EAC, adding that his country was rich in mineral resources, fresh water, fisheries, livestock and a market of 12 million people. After receiving the Instrument of Ratification, the EAC secretary general said South Sudan had become a new family member of the Community with full and equal rights, obligations and privileges. He added that the secretariat would soon develop a detailed road map for integrating the country in the on-going EAC projects and programmes.