Dar es Salaam. Developers are planning to reduce housing costs. The aim is to attract more customers despite the value-added tax (VAT) on housing. VAT on construction materials and finished houses has been a stumbling block for developers in Tanzania. Low-income earners have been unable to own houses. Watumishi Housing Company (WHC) and National Housing Corporation (NHC) say they are looking for strategies to ensure affordable houses to more people. WHC CEO Fred Msemwa told BusinessWeek that the VAT issue was still being handled by the government and was yet to be finalised. We expect the coming Parliament meeting to look into it but for the time being we have decided to come up with initiatives that will ensure that we build affordable houses for all. WHC is a public entity which is a licensed fund manager for management of the WHC Real Estate Investment Trust. He said so far WHC has constructed 700 houses valued at between Sh27 million and Sh76 million each in Dar es Salaam. According to him, to have affordable houses the construction costs will be reduced without compromising quality. According to him, they first ensure that they purchase plots at affordable prices and areas of convenience. We have established a team of experts in matters of construction who advise them on best options to use to acquire affordable houses. He said following the advice they now use the same quality materials but at affordable rates. He called on the public to move away from building their own houses and instead purchase houses already built because it was much cheaper. According to him, a person building and renting a house at the same discovers that they spent more money than a person who bought and continued paying while living in the house. NHC has written a letter to the minister for Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development, Mr William Lukuvi, to waive VAT on housing. NHC corporate affairs and CSR head Susan Omari told BusinessWeek that the corporation was looking at other options as it awaited the ministry s decision on VAT in housing to enable as many Tanzanians as possible to own houses. This issue is a legal matter. So we have to wait for the ministry s decision. Early this year, Mr Lukuvi called on house developers to reduce house costs to enable low-income earners to buy houses.