It s a habit for most people to keep items that they don t really need or use. Some have items for more than five years that they haven t used even once, and when you tell them about declutting some of them, they just don t understand you.It is along these lines that Nasra Karl Mbululo, the founder and CEO of Elite Organisers Co. Ltd, a professional organising company came up with a campaign to sensitise people to remove things they don t use so that they have more space and can easily find things when they need them.The campaign will run every year from September 1 to December 8, a period that is long enough to allow three full months to devote to decluttering their lives. The company will lead the campaign using its expertise in decluttering and professional organising skills. Anyone can join in by decluttering their homes or offices. and donating any items to the orphanage of our choice, says Nasra.Having grown up in a family with a philosophy of waste not , Nasra s mother would turn food leftovers into yummy breakfast, tasty lunch or a meal through out the day. Nasra s parents taught her and her siblings to recycle everything from dresses to become skirts, trousers turned shorts old furniture worked on until they were as better as new and so on.With no maids at home, this environment shaped Nasra and her seven siblings in a way that everyone knows what to do, when to do it, how to do it and where everything belongs. Nasra understands the complexities of today s high performance families. Having grown up in a big family, she also knows first-hand what it takes to organise a busy family and keep a household running smoothly. With this understanding, her focus to clients is to teach them how to achieve professional and personal life balance through organisation habits. I love organising and bringing order to spaces; it gives me that sense of peace and mental clarity. Organising has always been the source of calmness and focus in difficult situations. I will clean, organise and reorganise until there is order in my mind and the space I am working on, says the 37- year-old.That is why she came up with Declutter and Donate Campaign which calls upon the public to donate their excess belongings as the community faces lots of challenges supporting orphanages and people living in shelters. She had a chat with Sound Living about the campaign .At what point did you realise you wanted to do this?It all a started a year ago when I started a professional organising services company. During my consultations with clients I came across them having lots of things which they only keep, in their houses and never use them. The items kept just adding cost in their lives and bring nothing else of value.I encouraged them to remove them and make room for what matters in their lives, asked them to give the items to people who will really use them and the result was good. From there, I asked myself how can I help more people have a clutter free life? Then the opportunity presented itself when President John Magufuli announced that Independence Day would be celebrated by cleaning our environments. There only I said yes, the time is now. Cleaning roads and public spaces does not really serve us well if we are coming back to our overcrowded homes. That moment Declutter &amp;Donate campaign was born.What are your main responsibilities as the CEO?My responsibilities are to oversee the operations of the company and strategically planning and executing the activities.What do you like most about this campaign?I like the engagement part of it, talking to people and educating them about clutter and its direct effect on our life and work places. I also like the getting dirty part, helping people declutter their spaces and passing on some skills is rewarding, the relief on people s faces after decluttering is priceless.What do you like least about your work?When I fail to help clients and I have to walk away from them simply because we are not fit for one another. It breaks my heart because most of the time they really need my services but they are not ready to make changes or have tendencies that I am not qualified to handle.What challenges do you encounter in this campaign?The challenges are many but I will mention two major ones. It is the first campaign of its kind in the country, people don t have knowledge of the professional organising industry and that makes it hard to get buy in. Another thing is raising awareness costs a lot, getting sponsors and partners is a challenge since they don t know much about the campaign and they have not seen it done.How does your job affect your general lifestyle?It is not easy being a professional organiser. Once people understand what I do they have high expectations, believing that my home is picture perfect which is not the case most of the time. Another thing is I get frustrated when dealing with people who are less organised.What kinds of accomplishments tend to be valued and rewarded in this campaign?The success of this campaign will be collecting lots of donations, used furniture, toys books etc. This will show us that the public have understood the campaign and have been affected positively. And that is rewarding.The campaign is called Declutter and Donate. Why is this so?The campaign is called Declutter and Donate because it is with these words that we find a cause. We help people to define what clutter in their spaces is and encourage them to give them away for a cause. We raise awareness about clutter and how it can be used to better the lives of both who gives and who receives. The one who gives is benefiting by having a clutter free space and organised space to fit their current lifestyle and the one who receives is benefiting by having what they don t have in the first place.Who will the donations be made to?The campaign aims to benefit children in orphanages, we aim to create a library and playing area for them.The other beneficiaries are women in shelter. We aim to help the women who live in shelters by providing them with menstrual health seminars and then donate to them women essentials for personal grooming during their menstrual periods.We aim to create as many libraries and play areas country wide, we believe a child who reads becomes an adult who thinks. We also wish to help as many women as we can reach as we believe a woman s health is key to their economic activities.If you could do it all over again, would you choose the same path for yourself? If not, what would you change?My past is what made me who I am today and helps me focus on who I want to be in future. If I have to do it all over again, the only thing I would change is I would start this way earlier...apart from that I would change nothing.Which of your parents do you feel had the most influence on you growing up?Both my parents have a positive influence on me. They were a team when bringing up my seven siblings and I. Their combined strength shaped me to be who I am today. If I look at the organising part in me... I would say my mom. Honestly they both were a power team.What is it like working on this campaign?Working on this campaign can be really stressful if you don t believe strongly in it. Long working hours, meeting different people to sell your idea and most of them do not see eye to eye with you, but it is so rewarding knowing that you are going to change the lives of so many people with it. That only makes you wake up in the morning with a new strategy to make the day worthwhile.What s your opinion about the campaign?This campaign is an eye opener to so many people. Most of us don t know the emotional drain we are facing because of holding on to things we don t use anymore. With this campaign we will help people understand and find it easy to part with what does not serve them right anymore. Also with this campaign we will put a smile on children s faces, bring to them a normal childhood and give them a right to play. I believe with the donations in orphanages, it will help the children make new friends in the neighborhood now that they will have toys and games to play with. This way the gap between the children in orphanages and other children will be narrowed and the community around will be part of these children.As for women in shelters, we will help young girls understand the challenges around menstrual health and how to deal with them.We believe with this campaign, we will be able to touch the lives of many by donating what is excess to another as the famous English proverb says, One man s trash is another man s treasure . We have set ourselves to run this campaign countrywide and better the lives of underprivileged community members.Email: etungaraza@nationmedia.co.tz