As a parent of older children, you re probably no stranger to sibling rivalry. As your children enter the early elementary years, you may be watching them enter a new phase of rivalry. As their personalities and interests become more defined and their bodies grow stronger, they may begin new and more intense clashes. Parents who have divorced and remarried often are putting together blended families of children this age and the dynamics of stepsiblings can complicate matters all the more. The result: arguing, name-calling, teasing, tattling, pushing, and hitting that will occupy your kids for hours on end and ultimately threaten your sanity. The truth is, some brothers and sisters bicker their whole lives, so accept the fact that a certain level of background noise is unavoidable. On the other hand, it s high time to teach your children the importance of treating each other respectfully and resolving their own conflicts. Refereeing sibling rivalry isn t for the faint of heart. But with some careful navigation and lots of understanding, you can minimize the headaches and make life at home more harmonious. What to do about sibling rivalry Encourage children to work out conflicts on their own. When elementary-age children argue, the best approach is usually not to get involved. Instead, see if you can get them to work it out themselves. Acknowledge their conflict ( You two sure are steamed! ), then describe how you see it, listen to all sides of the debate, and tell your kids what you heard them say: So Joey wants to watch Space Ghost at 3:30, but Alex wants to use the TV to play Nintendo. Tell them that you understand their dilemma and that you re sure they can come up with a solution, then step aside. In the long run, resolving their own conflicts is an important skill for your children to learn, with the added benefit of making your life easier. Of course, some issues kids just can t work out on their own. In that case, call a meeting to discuss the problem. Give each child her say, writing down her main points. Read each position back to the group, taking time for polite rebuttal, and ask for solutions. Discuss the ideas and settle on one you can all live with. If the kids are too upset to negotiate, give them a half-hour cooling-off period and try again. A follow-up meeting might be necessary to see how the solution is working. (Eventually, they ll be so sick of being called back to the table, they ll do whatever it takes to make things right.) Try not to foster competition. As tempting as it may be to get your C+ grade-schooler to model herself on her honor-roll sibling. Comparisons send a competitive message and can really intensify a rivalry. Your job is to help your child do her best, on her terms. If she brings home a B-, an improvement over her regular Cs, congratulate and reward her. Remember: Treating each child as an individual means recognizing and setting individual goals. Acknowledging one child s achievements doesn t mean slighting the other one, though. If your less academically inclined child feels outshone by her sibling, for instance, encourage her in other areas. Encouraging her to develop her personal talents will also help her establish her own identity and bolster her self-esteem. Take steps to stop the putdowns. Mom likes me better. You look like a hamster. You smell bad. Insults and teasing are as common and inevitable as bickering and arguing among siblings. Still, a brother or sister s taunts and barbs can intensify a rivalry or reinforce a negative self-image. So unlike your hands-off approach to bickering, it s wise to step in and stop the putdowns. When you hear your grade-schooler insult her brother or sister, don t say anything in front of her. Instead, wait until the two of you are alone and tell her, It s not okay to say hurtful things to your brother. If you correct your child in front of her sibling, she s likely to exact revenge for her humiliation. If putdowns are a chronic problem, call a family meeting to discuss it and decide on a solution. You might take away privileges (15 minutes of TV time, for example, or a deduction from her allowance) for every hurtful comment you hear. Pretty soon, your grade-schooler will find a way to curb her mouth. Go slow with stepsiblings. Blended families can create brand-new sibling rivalries. Your only child may have an unfamiliar stepsibling dropped on her out of the clear blue. And the turf wars that can result are wrapped up in the loss, anxiety, and confusion common in children of divorce.