A pregnant woman with high blood pressure (hypertension) needs special care. This condition can affect both mother and the un-born baby. High blood pressure causes decrease in blood flow to the placenta and this means that the baby does not get enough oxygen and nutrients for normal growth.This may lead to delivering a baby with low birth weight or premature delivery. It may also lead to separation of the placenta before delivery which is called placental abruption . Furthermore, it poses the risk of future heart and blood vessels disease to the mother.High blood pressure during pregnancy (gestational hypertension) is blood pressure that is 140/90 mm Hg or greater documented on two occasions, at least four hours apart. It can occur when the pregnancy is above 20 weeks or within 42 days after you have delivered your baby. If this condition is left untreated, it may damage you body organs or system and presents with protein in urine which called Preeclampsia. Preeclampsia can lead to Eclampsia (Kifafa cha Mimba) which even fatal for mother and baby.Sometimes, it develops without any symptoms; trained healthcare giver can single out it by checking your blood pressure and protein in the urine. However, you may experience severe headache, changes in vision, including temporary loss of vision, blurred vision or light sensitivity, abdominal pain, usually under your ribs on the right side, nausea or vomiting, decreased urination, shortness of breath and sudden weight gain and body swelling (edema) particularly in the face and hands.If you are experiencing any of the symptoms mentioned, visit your health care provider as soon as possible. And always, keep your prenatal appointments. Attend antenatal clinic as scheduled throughout your pregnancy. Take your blood pressure medication as prescribed. If you have been prescribed with some medication, take them as told, they are your chance to save you and the baby s lives. Eat a healthy diet. Choose foods low in salts.Know what s off-limits. Avoid smoking, alcohol and illicit drugs.E-mail: mwakasegeivone@gmail.com