Have you ever felt that seeing a single doctor is never enough and satisfactory for your problems and you believe it is best to get the second opinion, and then the third opinion and always on this kind of cycle? You might be a victim of a problem called Doctor Shopping . Wait a minute, you actually might be committing a crime as doctor shopping is illegal in some countries though not in Tanzania. Victims of this psychological problem tend to visit multiple doctors from time to time with the same problem. There are people who even waste much of their income to stay on that waiting line, either at the hospital or pharmacy to get some sort of medication that they think they desperately need. Doctor shopping poses financial burden to health insurance companies, hospitals and even individuals themselves, some studies have revealed in the past. Not only will the individual practicing doctor shopping be affected financially, but if the aim is to procure prescription drugs illicitly, this poses even major challenges including addiction. If the individual is addicted to it, that means whenever a genuine medical need to use them arise, they will not work as required. For the case of Tanzania, this problem is palpable. As we develop as a country both financially and socially, the general population becomes more aware of their health needs and they are actively demanding for them. In recent years the rise of the middle class people has resulted in a positive health seeking behaviour within communities. Moreover, access to health information has reached at the hands of majority of people as internet and technology skyrockets. Despite the fact that these and many other developments are to be praised and embraced, there are many challenges that come with such developments--Doctor shopping is surely one of them. Doctor shopping is defined differently by various parties, however, the core meaning lies to the fact that a person will see multiple treatment providers, either during a single illness episode or to procure prescription medication illicitly. While some scientists might have different definitions of doctor shopping while doing research on the matter, the concept of the practice remains the same and that is; it involves continuous and sometimes very expensive visits to see different doctors over and over again The reasons for doctor shopping are varied. Some patient explanations for this phenomenon relate to clinician factors, such as inconvenient office hours or locations, long waiting times, personal characteristics or qualities of the provider, and/or insufficient communication time between the patient and clinician. Some patients explanations relate to personal factors and include both illness factors such as symptom persistence, lack of understanding or non-acceptance of the diagnosis or treatment as well as psychological factors. Importantly, not all doctor shopping behaviour is driven by suspect motivations. If the reasons lie within health-provider factors, it is argued that doctor shopping might actually be useful. While working as a doctor, it was common to come across patients who have seen more than two to three doctors before the current consultation. A normal practice is that a patient will be given an official referral to attend a higher up health facility or to be seen by a specialist but most of the patient just show up without any referral document whatsoever. In other countries like United States of America, special measures are in place to combat this problem which consumes a lot of government money and time but the same is not being done in Tanzania. Doctor shopping for the aim of getting prescription medication illicitly is on the other hand very controversial and accounts to be more of a crime. Some studies in Europe suggests that a person might attend up to 10 different doctors in different hospitals, including travelling to other parts of the nation to get prescription to some forms of either addictive or non-addictive drugs. A study done in Norway confirmed there is a link between the number of doctors consulted and prescription of addictive drugs. In the study, patients who visited more than five clinicians for the same problem were prescribed addictive drugs 10 times higher than non-addictive drugs. The addictive drugs involved with doctor shopping are opioids (12.8%), benzodiazepines (4.2%), stimulants (1.4%) and weight-loss medication (0.9%). In our major public and private hospitals, it is common to come across patients in pursuit of such kind of drugs. With extensive use of mobile internet, patients who seek such medications, use the loophole of doctor shopping in Tanzania to secure the said drugs. Patients might mimic the symptoms or lie about what is bothering them to direct a doctor to reach a certain diagnosis so that they can be prescribed certain drugs. In a premature health system like Tanzania, doctor shopping is a teenage problem which is rising rapidly as the country s economy rises. If you have been observing your health seeking behaviour and it falls within doctor shopping, it is advised to make a true claim of what seems to be your problem. While most people believe seeing a doctor once and being prescribed medication then it means by 100 per cent they will get better. It is totally normal that some symptoms might persist which is why most of the time you will be given an appointment to come back for a review. Rather than making frequent and unnecessary visits to different doctors, it is more useful to re-visit the same doctor as they are now much more aware of your situation and what can be done next. Avoid making fresh consultations with many doctors, as your problem will always be new to them. The author is Tanzanian Medical Doctor pursuing a Masters in Management Science in the UK.