Dodoma. Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa will not move his office from Dar es Salaam to the designated capital today as earlier announced, it has been revealed. Regional Commissioner Jordan Rugimbana said yesterday the Premier would move to Dodoma after completion of the Bunge Sitting which starts on Tuesday next week. Speaking to The Citizen there yesterday, Mr Rugimbana said the Prime Minister opted for brief delay to move to Dodoma to enable ministers and other relevant authorities to concentrate on issues pertaining to the Parliament sitting. As we announced earlier, during Bunge sessions, we would not like to see Dodoma hosts an event of great magnitude, or ministers and some Members of Parliament engage in other activities that can compel them to miss some sessions, said Mr Rugimbana. He said the decision by Mr Majaliwa was also aimed at providing the regional authorities with ample time to work on some important isues before the government shifts its seat from Dar es Salaam to Dodoma. Moving the Premier s office from Dar es Salaam to Dodoma will go down in history as one of the major events to happen in our country, said the RC. We, therefore, need ample time to address some of the challenges the region faces before his arrival, he added. According to the RC, regional authorities have planned for a grand reception for the Prime Minister. The Dodoma residents, he said, were to host a special ceremony for him at Mtumba Municipality premises, a few hours after his arrival. A number of artistes and traditional dancing groups were to spice up the event. The Premier was to address a public rally at the Jamhuri Stadium here in the afternoon, he said. For her part, Dodoma District Commissioner Christina Mndeme appealed to residents here continue with their preparations for the Premier s arrival. On July 25, this year, Mr Majaliwa said he would move his office from Dar es Salaam to the new capital on September 1, this year (today). Addressing the Dodoma residents during the Heroes Day, Mr Majaliwa said he was setting the pace for the execution of President John Magufuli s directive of moving the government to Dodoma before 2020, when his first term ends. He said he had instructed relevant authorities to ensure his residence is ready for him to move in today. On that note, I order all Cabinet ministers to pack their bags with me. I know they all have houses and sub-offices here in Dodoma, he said. The PM also challenged residents here to make the best out of the mass shifting of the government offices by investing in service provision. prepare enough to welcome the premier said his arrival and stay here would play a pivotal role at boosting the region s economic status. We are continuing well preparing to welcome Mr Majaliwa with much fanfare, she briefed. President John Magufuli promised that the government will shift to the country capital, when he was accepting CCM chairmanship in June. President Magufuli said he would ensure his government moves to Dodoma before the end of his first five-year term in 2020. Mr Majaliwa is moving to Dodoma to fulfill President John Magufuli s order that the government must shift its seat from Dar es Salaam over the next four years. Speaking during the Heroes Day on July 25 in Dodoma, Premier Majaliwa pledged to move to Dodoma in September and asked other ministers to start thinking of how they were going to follow suit. Regional authorities have organised a special welcoming ceremony for September 1, in honour of Prime Minister, who will permanently shift his office here from Dar es Salaam. Minister in Prime Minister s office (Policy, parliament, employment, youth and disabled) Jenister Mhagama moved to Dodoma to prepare for the premier s arrival.