Dar es Salaam. The Main opposition party,Chadema, has asked the police to release its party members held at Oysterbay and Central Police stations or take them to court, threatening to take legal steps if they do neither.According to the Party s Director of Legal Affairs, Tundu Lissu, at least 10 Chadema members were being held in the two police stations for more than two weeks without being charged, contrary to the law. Mr Lissu, who also doubles as Singida East legislator, said those who had been under police custody without being charged include Mr Fulgence Kotide, who was briefly detained at Central Police before being released after falling sick.He named others who are still under police custody as Mr Benjamin Nzogu and Mr Musa Sikabwe who are at the Central Police, as well as Ms Shakila Makame who is at Oysterbay police station. They are all residents of Dar es Salaam.The list also includes Mr Aristotle Mgasi and Mr Hosia Mbuba from Vwawa Mbeya, Mr Ignas Mzenga from Ulanga Morogoro, Mr David Makame from Tunduma, Mr Mdude Nyagali from Songwe and Juma Salum and Suileman Said from Pemba.Briefing reporters at the party s headquarters yesterday, Mr Lissu said that if Police do not send them to court or release them on Tuesday Chadema will refer the issue to the High Court. We will use the High Court because according to the Section 390 of Criminal Procedures Act, the court has powera to order the Police Force to release or charge someone who is under custody. These people are in Police custody for about two weeks now, but the law requires that someone be held by Police for not more than 48 hours before being charged or released, said Mr Lissu.Mr Lissu added that there were also unconfirmed reports that police plans to arrest 73 other Chadema members in various places and detain without charging them. I was in police custody for just one day because if they had held me for a longer period, the whole world would have known how they infringed the law. Now we must speak for these common people, added Mr Lissu.Contacted for comment, the Director of Criminal Investigation (DCI), Mr Diwani Athumani said that police deals with all criminals regardless whether they belong to a political party or not.He noted that the said Chadema members might have overstayed at police stations due various reasons, including investigations process. In our police centres we have different people that are being held according to the law. If Chadema want to go to the High Court they are free to do so because that is their Constitutional right, said Mr Athuman.