Nairobi. The Sixth Tokyo International Conference on African Development (Ticad VI) held in Nairobi late August was not just a business summit. It was also about politics and positioning. With 22 African heads of state, four vice presidents and nine prime ministers (including ours), Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe had a perfect platform to layout his country s political aspirations and lobby for the much-needed backing from this part of the world.While the success of Ticad VI is yet to be judged, Japan may have it her way after declaring support for Africa to have a permanent seat in the United Nations Security Council by 2023 at the latest. This was, of course, after the PM pledged a whopping $30 billion (around Sh60 trillion) in public and private support for infrastructure development, education and healthcare expansion in the continent.The bigger chunk of $10 billion (around Sh20 trillion) will go towards infrastructure development in Africa. But the whole package will be spread over three years from this year and include $10 billion for infrastructure projects, to be executed through cooperation with the African Development Bank (AfDB).Mr Abe sang two bestselling tracks on the album that African leaders love to hear the most. The resource-rich continent not doing enough to make use of its God-given wealth desperately needs funding towards efforts to providing even the basics to its increasingly weary ordinary inhabitants.The biggest challenge is poverty. And there are disappointing poverty numbers too. According to a recent World Bank report, the number of poor people in Africa is expected to remain close to 400 million until 2020, despite official forecasts of ongoing robust economic growth.Research shows that the number of people on the continent reportedly living under $1.25 (less than Sh2,800) per day continued to creep upwards from 358 million in 1996 to 415 million in 2011. Ironically, last year marked the 20th year since sub-Saharan Africa started on a path of faster economic growth. During that period, growth has averaged 5.2 per cent per year.So, with population numbers going through the roof in most African countries, Tanzania included, the battle to end poverty can only get tougher. African economies may be generating more income, but that income will have to be shared among an ever-increasing number of people, rising by at least 2.6 per cent per year.Tanzania can stand as a typical case of what challenge lies ahead for African governments. At the current birth and death rates, the country s population is projected to reach 100 million in 2035 that is 19 years from now. Any forward-looking leadership would want to ask the obvious questions: Will we be able to feed all those mouths? Will we have enough social services? Where are the industries to provide jobs? The list is endless.Perfect timing by Japan. Yet the country s rival, China made a single investment of $2 billion in oil-rich Equatorial Guinea in the month of April 2015 alone. In other words, Prime Minister Abe s resource-poor country may need to do more to reap from the continent.But the PM pushed the right political button. He told the African heads of state: You in Africa, have the right to demand that the international community better reflect your views. Reform of the United Nation Security Council is truly a goal that Japan and Africa hold in common. For long now, African countries have been pushing for at least two permanent slots in UNSC to no avail. However, with the African Union (AU) agenda 2063, which states that by 2023, the continent must have a permanent membership and thus veto power, efforts to push for the seat seem to have shifted to top gear.Already, the continental bloc has tasked a 10-nation committee to push its agenda. Foreign ministers and permanent representatives to the AU and UN drawn from the African Union Committee of Ten (C-10) Nations are reviewing progress in intergovernmental negotiations meant to consolidate an African position.Adopted by African leaders in Addis Ababa in 2005, the common African position on the proposed reform of the UN is described as the antidote for the historical injustice meted out to the continent. Notably, it wants Africa to be represented in all decision making organs of the UN, including the Security Council, the most important governing body in the UN. The African position also significantly asks for debt cancellation for the highly indebted poor countries as well as the debt reduction and cancellation for middle income indebted countries.Africa, despite being the recipient of most declarations on peace and security, only has non-permanent members who cannot influence substantial decisions. The five: Russia, China, France, United Kingdom and the USA enjoy the power of the veto.Veto power means that it can stop a key decision on international security by voting no. And Japan s announcement signals intent to checkmate China, a member of the UN Security Council.Said the Japanese PM: The enormous continent of Africa has given no permanent member to the United Nations Security Council. Agenda 2063 states clearly that by 2023, it will rectify this situation. But in Nairobi, Mr Abe s speech was well crafted to avoid any diplomatic disaster. He touched on the need for the continent to embrace democratic values, saying Japan values human rights and the rule of law. Asia has enjoyed growth on the basis of democracy, the rule of law, and a market economy that has taken root there. It is my wish that the self-confidence and sense of responsibility spawned there comes to envelope the entirety of Africa together with the gentle winds that blows here, he said.From the East, and South to the West and North, most countries in the continent are still grappling with a democratic deficit. There is a general perception that the continent lags behind the rest of the world in upholding generally accepted basic tenets of democracy.Across Africa, millions still yearn for citizen participation in government, which is one of the most basic signposts of a democracy. There is also a dearth of political tolerance, accountability, transparency and economic freedom.Many of the elections held on the continent from Uganda in the East, (recently) Zambia, Zimbabwe in the South, to Gabon in the West are still far cry from being free and fair.Mr Abe had to walk a fine line touching on this sensitive issue. It is fine line it will still have to walk in its new bid expand its territory through extending its partnership with an increasingly influential Africa.But the message was delivered to the continent s leaders it s time they reformed and work for the betterment of their people too.