The Angolan currency, kwanza, has been on a downswing, especially after the global oil prices came down as the southern African country is heavily dependent on its oil.The kwanza crisis, plus political grievances that have been building seem to threaten the country's economic growth.But even then, the country's top dogs still seem to focus on one issue: political succession or self sustenance.When the country's ruling party met recently, the aging man of Angolan politics, President Jos Eduardo dos Santos, was handed a fresh political mandate to head the country's Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA). Not that there was any apparent threat anyway. But there had been growing suspense over the issue.Luanda. (NMG) Latest from his hat of tricks was the appointment of Jo o Louren o Angolan defence minister, as his deputy. That effectively cleared Manuel Vicente out of the succession line. The priority now is to aid the party s president and to refine the machinery for the next commitments Mr Jo o Louren o, the former party s general secretary, told journalists after his promotion.The highly placed soldier is expected to help the president secure his hold onto power. The President seem to believe that he has caused wounds to several people. Now he sees the dynasty solution exhausted. He needs someone who guarantees him and his family some security a Portuguese newspaper Expresso in Angola quoted an unnamed source from the ruling party.In 2014 Reuters news agency speculated that Mr Jo o Louren o's appointment as the country s defence minister elevated him to the frontline of Angolan politics and also placed him in charge of a large part of the country's budget.Before he was appointed defence minister, he was serving as a second deputy speaker in the country s parliament. He is a prestigious figure both inside the ruling party and the country s society, well educated, high reputed and with a high oratory capacity Club K, an Angolan publication described him last year.Changing alliancesEven as the president secures his path to sunset, there are fresh threats.Before the party's congress opened, one of his veteran militants made an astonishing statement. Mr Ambr sio Lukoki,a staunch supporter of the ruling party asked his name be removed from the Committee Central (CC) list. This is the organ than decides on critical issues of the party.At a press conference, Mr Lukoki accused president s dos Santos of blemishing party s image due to his unpopularity.In March 2016, President Jos Eduardo dos Santos indicated he would quit politics in 2018.He is the second longest serving leader after he was re-elected in In 2012, having ruled the country since 1979. Equatorial Guinea's Theodoro Obiang Nguema currently holds the gold medal.Do Santos' current term ends in 2017. He has not yet explained why he would leave a year later, causing a lot of speculation.It is also not clear whether he will go for yet another term. The party s and country s leader are recording an unprecedented unpopularity Mr Lukoki said.