Let s talk about families today, family is very important and it takes a lot of wisdom and prayers to end up with good people as part of family.Despite the perfect picture families that we always see, all families are complex in their own right and have their issues. However, with the right amount of commitment, you can make your family life the very best it can be. We are usually busy with work and studies to a point that we forget our families.One thing that I know for sure is that the whole world can turn against you but if you have a strong family bound with love, then they will stand with you no matter what happens. It is sad that we get into our cocoons of busy lives and forget our families. Jobs come in this world that seems shakier everyday but family remains true to us, so we should strike a balance between work and family. Our sense of being part of family dissolves and communication stops because of commitments these days. There are those family members who always go out of their way when we need them. Their world stops when we seek their help.This reminds me of my older brother Bob-Seth and my little sister Grace. They always step right in my shoes whenever I need help. And it is not only me, they are always willing to help others. I remember the time I had no reliable nanny and was busy at work and my son Jermaine was just three months old. I was in a fix since I had to be at work and there was no one to turn to to take care of the baby.I called my little sister late in the afternoon to tell her about my predicament. She was busy with her Master thesis and told me she will get back to me by evening. That evening, when I called again, she told me she was heading to the airport to catch a night flight to Dar es Salaam to take care of my baby as I look for a nanny. She saved me a great deal and I can t thank her enough.And my brother Bob-Seth is also another adorable person who will stop everything to come to our rescue. He d rather forfeit a meal to buy someone who is less fortunate food. He has a heart of gold and was blessed with the gift of empathy. There are sacrifices in life that only your family can make for you. Let s take time and cherish every family member.