Dar es Salaam. Academics and political scientists have mixed feelings about President John Magufuli s hard-hitting speech on the political situation in Zanzibar.In separate interviews this week following the President s visit to the Isles at the weekend, many expressed concern over the lack of a reconcialatory tone in his speech.Some also do not concur with the extent to which the Head of State went in attacking Civic United Front (CUF) secretary Seif Hamad. The CUF leader found himself at the receiving end of President Magufuli s verbal jabs for snubbing Zanzibar President Ali Mohamed Shein.Addressing a rally at Gombani Ya Kale in Pemba on Friday, President Magufuli also reiterated his stance on political activities, saying the polls were over. He told the opposition to wait for 2020.But it was his attack on Mr Hamad that has left tongues wagging with some critics saying the President could have done a better job by attempting to reconcile the CUF leader and his rival, Dr Shein.Instead, some analysts say, Dr Magufuli suggested he was not for the idea of compromise and talks to end the conflict.Taking a swipe at the CUF secretary general for refusing to shake hands with Dr Shein at the funeral of former Zanzibar President Aboud Jumbe Mwinyi, President Magufuli said he would not have signed papers to facilitate the payment of the opposition leader s medical bills.A political analyst, Prof Aboud Sharrif says the President s remarks against Mr Hamad did not add value to efforts aimed at fixing the political impasse in the Isles.He notes: The political impasse in Zanzibar needs a quick fix, but instead of saying how he would help end the tension he (President Magufuli) chose to castigate the opposition leader. Since it was the first time the President visited Zanzibar after the 2015 General Election, everyone expected him to come up with a solution to the tension instead of fuelling the conflict. Preach unity insteadThe don says Dr Magufuli was supposed to have spent more time on preaching unity to help unite people in the Isles who are currently divided along political lines.He also suggests that another government of national unity could be the best solution in Zanzibar. But that will now be put aside. Zanzibari (divisive) politics cannot go through threats and rebuking each other in public. It needs reconciliation, says Prof Sharrif.UDSM lecturer and political scientist, Prof Mohamed Bakari, agrees. He also believes President Magufuli s style in dealing with opposition leaders in the Isles fuel more tension. Zanzibar cannot be peaceful without focused discussions. Telling the opposition to wait for the 2020 General Election is not healthy in democratic countries like Tanzania, he says.Prof Bakari says the President was supposed to admit there is a political problem in the Isles, and also use the platform to assure Zanzibaris that he was together with them in trying to unite the warring parties.In his speech, the President praised Dr Shein for having a warm heart and accepting to work with the opposition. But he also said he would not have done that had he been in the Zanzibari leader s shoes.He also vowed that there would be no compromise with the CUF leaders, who have refused to acknowledge Dr Shein s presidency accusing CCM of stealing their victory through a controversial re-run.President Magufuli warned CUF leaders they were wasting time globe-trotting in search of international intervention saying the Zanzibar matter had been settled.In yet another veiled attack on Mr Hamad, he said leaders should accept when they have failed to win an election instead of attempting to force destiny.Reacting to criticism levelled against the President over his remarks, CCM secretary general (Zanzibar) Vuai Ali Vuai said those trying to interprete the speech should not isolate events, but look at it in a much wider spectrum. People must first look at how Maalim Seif snubbed Dr Shein at the funeral. President Magufuli simply decided to deal with the matter at a personal level, said the ruling party leader.He criticised Mr Hamad for not respecting the fact that people were at a funeral and that it was not the time or place for cheap politicking. What he (the CUF secretary general) did cannot be tolerated. It was a moment of grief for everyone and people in Zanzibar were supposed to be united and avoid allowing personal feelings get the better of them. UDSM lecturer Dr Benson Bana agrees with the CCM officials. He believes President Magufuli did what he knew was right under the circumstances. Every leader has his style of sending messages to the masses. This is what has happened with President Magufuli. Sometimes we shouldn t entertain pampering one other, he says.But another political analyst, Prof Gaudence Mpangala, disagress. He says it was unbecoming for the President to utter such remarks in the Isles where there is simmering political conflict. The speech was uncalled, but it only reveals how the ruling party has chosen to clamp down on the opposition, said Prof Mpangala.He added that the President could have simply focused on addressing developmental issues during the event instead of reminding Zanzibaris of their bitter history.The Civic United Front (CUF) itself expressed shock and disbelief after the rally in Pemba on Friday.Chairman of CUF Interim Leadership Committee Julius Mtatiro, told The Citizen on Sunday that such a statement was unfortunate to come from the Head of State at this time when efforts were needed to re-unite the Zanzibari peopleThe party also addressed a press conference, CUF leaders said the speech was yet another proof that President Magufuli lacked commitment to fix the problem in the Isles.Acting chairman Julius Matatiro said the president s remarks fueled tension instead of healing wounds. He also said the President got it wrong in suggesting that Dr Shein could stop the payment of his rival s medical bills. We want to let President Magufuli know that Dr Shein has no any legal mandate to stop Maalim Seif s benefits. These are benefits enshrined in the Isles Constitution, said Mr Mtatiro.Just after assuming power last year, political analysts warned the President was likely to face up to a number of tough tests in the immediate future, the most glaring being the political impasse in Zanzibar.Later on in his parliamentary speech, President Magufuli vowed to give that issue special importance and promised to resolve it through negotiations with all involved.However, it was not easy from start to see what channels he would explore. Parliamentarians heckled him as he came into the National Assembly with Dr Shein, chanting the name of Mr Hamad, who still claims victory in the Zanzibar presidential election.The Zanzibar Electoral Commission (ZEC) chairman Salim Jecha announced the annulment of the elections after he had started announcing the results from some of the constituencies.