There is this famous saying by Buddha which has been quoted over generations, Thousands of candles can be lighted from a single candle, and the life of the candle will not be shortened. Happiness never decreases by being shared. One thing that successful people usually do is to help others grow, learn the ropes and be better. They will go an extra mile to ensure those around them are as comfortable as they can be. They support others as much as they can. Why am I bringing this here today great ladies? It is because there are many mean people in this world.Have you ever wondered why some people are more successful than others at work? I mean those who work really hard and use no backdoors to attain their success or greatness. For some people, it is all about stepping on other people, bringing down a few more. However, you can still be successful and achieve greatness by holding other people s hands to grow with you. We get it; self-interest is all too common as people are busy thinking about themselves to put others down in desperate attempt to gain attention.My late father used to tell me that how we treat others is a direct extension of how you feel about yourself. A secure and professional person wants everyone to be happy. So sisters, you know the habits of both successful and even unsuccessful people, choose your company wisely. Have vision and move on towards the path to greatness. Another thing I have noticed is that people feel comfortable when they are on the same pedestal but the moment one rises to a higher pedestal, they can t just deal with it. Wishing people well is a habit that you can cultivate and accepting other people s growth is good. That is what successful people do. Just humble yourselves and work hard. The person on a higher pedestal should inspire you to succeed and even surpass. Sisters, just note that it is not our duty to run others down. Leave this habit to those who don t have vision in life.Persevere to become successful in your own right. Do not cling on to other people s prosperous lanes in a bid to attain wealth. You need to be determined and have the hunger to succeed in order to make it in today s world. Equally important is the ability to block any sort of negativity from derailing your already turbulent path to success.Embrace yourself for success and work extra hard without minding such characters.