Early last week Freeman Mbowe leader of the opposition party Chadema, announced that the Ukuta protest had been pushed back by a month.The reason being that the party will await the outcome of the negotiations I wish to give my opinion and analysis on what exactly this wisdom is and its importance.For a long time religion and faith have inspired and motivated the public to engage in humanitarian and welfare issues. As such, one cannot deny the fact that today the role religion plays to gain prominence in the discourse on various public issues.The recent political deadlock was frightening as it was difficult to imagine what would have happened if the Ukuta demonstration had taken place, on September 1st.Faith based organisations since Mwalimu s time have shown clear commitment to local communities needs to stand up against social injustice, and poverty.Through vital relationships built on trust, compassion and dedication religious leaders have contributed to our country s stability. This time they did it by preventing Ukuta even if for a few weeks and I pray this wisdom is not swept under the carpet.Religion has and remains to this day one of the most powerful forces contributing to shaping our country. And I am relieved because in principle, the government respects not only people s religions but religious leaders as well.The leaders saved the day under the umbrella of wisdom and through dialogue promoting understanding and harmony between Chadema and JPM s government. Ukuta has at least been adjourned to October 1st.This wisdom has nothing to do with being street wise, it is about maintaining the quality of public life. Indeed in the African context, both religion and the wisdom derived is and continues to be at centre of our lives. It is that which makes qualitative changes in the lives of our people.Mwalimu knew and valued the wisdom of religious leaders. For him their faith was not just about spiritual assent, but a life lived in compassionate service to others, especially the vulnerable. Nyerere s ideas on religion, religious leaders, their wisdom and views on the moral and social fabric of the country were inseparable.So we await to see this happening. Let us accept their wisdomLet us acknowledge that clerics easily access large congregations while continuing to be custodians of moral values for large groups of the population.Mine is therefore a polite warning to both political and religious leaders.Religious leaders; we know that you are listened to and represent institutions with the potential to challenge and counter-balance injustice. We trust that you will communicate values and attitudes rooted in your respective faiths, but please remember this; as you point out the speck in the government s eye, ensure that this should not be emphasised at the cost of the plank in your own eye.Political leaders do not dare to discard the religious leaders. Please do not ignore their public relevance. Be reminded that this wisdom is capable of feeding into public discussion.Remember also that the general public has disturbing memories of what happened in other parts of the world when the wisdom of religious leaders was deliberately kicked out of the dialogue room.In this opinion and analysis platform, I call upon all involved in solving this deadlock to welcome religious leaders in the public sphere. If common sense has helped to bring back in the House in Dodoma the opposition MPs after their long fight with Dr Tulia Ackson the Deputy speaker, surely, the wisdom of religious leaders can do even more. Good luck!