For hospitals in Tanzania to be able to deliver quality healthcare, the issue of innovation is unavoidable. With innovation, I mean introducing new concepts, ideas and services that are aimed at improving treatment, diagnosis and prevention of various ailments that afflict Tanzanians. This also means doing new things that will boost the quality of healthcare, improve safety, bring good treatment outcomes, increase efficiency and cut costs. You can now see what I mean that owners of health facilities whether government or individuals, must strive to add value to the healthcare services they provide and aim at taking them from lower to higher standards. Health economists have always taught us on how to optimize available resources however scarce they may be with the aim of fulfilling the expectations of those we serve, and, in this case, I mean the patients who need healthcare. Effective use of these principles from health economists, coupled with health innovations, can help in dealing with the persistent scarcity or shortage of resources in health care delivery in the country. Elsewhere around the world, new drugs and vaccines are continuously being developed through new innovations. This goes together with the development of modern electronic equipment, modern procedures and treatments procedures. For example, the introduction of telemedicine, electronic medical and health records, use of robots in rehab and e-Health use are now becoming more of a necessity than a luxury. It s apparent now, that information technology is an important driver of innovation in health care. Use of IT continues to provide room for more innovations. Who are key stakeholders in the process of healthcare innovations? I know you might be thinking that doctors, nurses and pharmacists are the only key stakeholders in this case. If so, you are absolutely wrong. The real stakeholders are the patients that are seeking the services, and doctors and other healthcare providers of course, owners of health facilities, innovators (being a company or individual) and the government. But we need to be watchful here. The process of innovation is always complex and multi-dimensional, involving several stakeholders. You will realise that most ideas on healthcare innovations are imported from developed countries. This doesn t mean that there are no healthcare innovative measures being undertaken locally. However, there are obstacles. What are real obstacles to healthcare innovations? The nature of the healthcare delivery system is one obstacle. It s complex and diverse. This complexity prevents diffusion of innovation ideas and facilities across all healthcare delivery systems in the country. For example, it is easier to absorb new healthcare innovations in an urban hospital compared to a rural hospital. Healthcare innovation requires intensive investment and huge capital. Most of our innovators have good and recommendable ideas and concepts on how to improve healthcare systems but is unfortunate that they lack enough capital to turn their ideas into a reality. The existing education-system is not friendly to healthcare innovations. The present education system doesn t equip students with enough skills and techniques to be innovative. The society always expects these educated and graduates to be leading stakeholders to initiate healthcare innovations but it is unfortunate that this is not the case. This weakness in the education-system should be rectified but this should be coupled with changing the attitude of clinicians towards innovation. Most clinicians and other providers have tendencies to protect their individual autonomy and reputation, thus failing to embrace new things. When introduced to new healthcare innovations, all they consider is how will this innovation impact negatively their reputation in the society? High illiterate rate of most of patients is an obstacle that comes in when we discuss how new innovations can be of benefit to end users the patients. For example, a patient can fail to use electronic personal health records app installed in smart phones only because the patient doesn t know how to read. Yet, the adoption of healthcare innovations is regulated by government laws, making changes more laborious. The process is bureaucratic and tiresome. This is not friendly to young and upcoming healthcare innovators. The return on investment to healthcare innovators, most of the time isn t immediate. This discourages a lot of upcoming health innovators. Despite all the obstacles, it s now time time to innovate our new ways of healthcare delivery, deal with the scarcity of resources.