Dar es Salaam. Tanzania boasts of more than 120 tribes and most of them feel very secure. They are assured of their existence and wellbeing. But some ethnic groups such as Hadzabe and Tatoga can rightly be referred to as endangered. This is because their populations have continued to decrease due to a number of reasons.Unfortunately, by far and large the government, in its systems, take these communities just like other communities while facts of live note that such people needs special attention.For instance, despite special requests to have numbers of such communities be ascertained through the 2012 Housing and Population census by inserting a question into the census documents, the government refused. As a result today no one is quite sure of population of these communities.Civil society and non-governmental organisations which have been closely following the interests of such communities, have in many instances clashed with government officials. They are viewed as trouble-makers especially when advocating for special environments which would favour these communities.But it is through such organisations that the world has been alerted that the number of people in such communities has alarmingly decreased.In short, there are systematic plans to deny the identity and existence of such communities. There are also some systematic plans to deny such communities sustainability. If a state has no specific policies to cater for such communities whose survival needs special attention, it does mean that they are not assured of major components of their survival.Depending on general policies to cater for these communities needs is like to condemn them to extinction.What is in a name?It all starts with acceptance, locally and international, of what does indigenous means. Arusha-based lawyer and human rights activist Edward ole Kaita notes that until now the world has not agreed on common meaning of term indigenous . This is a source of major problems as far as these communities are concerned because if you cannot clearly define them, it is very difficult to provide for their basic necessities. That is may be why the government has no special consideration when it comes to interest of such groups, he told The Citizen.Tanzania has refused to accept a proposed definition of indigenous persons noting that almost all Tanzanians have their origin within the country.The concept of indigenous populations in Africa had been the subject of extensive study and debate resulting in a report adopted by the African Commission on Human and Peoples Rights (ACHPR) in November 2003 at its 34th Ordinary Session.The report is in the context of a strict respect for the inviolability of borders and of the obligation to preserve the territorial integrity of State Parties, in conformity with the principles and values enshrined in the Constitutive Act of the AU, the African Charter on Human and Peoples Rights (the African Charter) and the UN Charter.But, even as this report was issued, there were still concerns over how indigenous people are regarded and perceived.According to Mr ole Kaita to ensure that interests of these groups are taken into consideration, such a definition should assure them of several issues including self-determination. But the major concern has been land ownership. If the definition does not include this issue, there is a possibility of completely losing the intentions aimed at safeguarding such communities, he says.Mr ole Kaita notes that has been the case in Tanzania where, though they have special and specific needs, but minority groups of Hadzabe, Tindiga, Taturu and the like, have been treated like any other communities.Land should be assured to these communities because it is the primal source of their survival. Being hunter and gatherers, they know no other occupation other than that. They don t farm or raise livestock. Therefore, their survival is on land where they get animals, fruit, honey, tubers and leaves which they use as food. To assure the survival of these people and sustainability of their groups, there is a need for a special attachment to and use of their traditional land whereby their ancestral land and territory have a fundamental importance for their collective physical and cultural survival as peoples, notes Mr ole Kaita.Because these people have different cultures which keep them moving, he pointed out, there was a need to ensure that the country uses general laws to manage them. Such laws should not subjugate, marginalise, dispossess them of their property or discriminate against the communities because these peoples have different cultures, ways of life or mode of production.Discriminatory lawsImagine a case in which particulars of the accused describe him as a farmer. But, he stands trial accused of farming! This is what our laws do to minority groups such as Hadzabe.According to reports from areas where such minority communities live, they have become enemies of the state because they damage the environment. The government says in many of its reports that these people have been destroying forests.But those who know how these people survive, tell a different story. They note that there are no good conservationists as Hadzabe. Because they depend on the forest for their food, they note, Hadzabe have strict guidance on how to treat a forest. You will find that among major taboos in these communities is on how to treat a forest. For instance, there are trees which they are not supposed to be cut whatever the circumstances. Basically, Hadzabe do not do anything in their land beside hunting, gathering fruits and harvesting honey. But the problem is according to our laws, if you want to improve protection of your land, it is more safe to cultivate it than leaving it as it is, says Mr ole Kaita.He points out that while it is widely known and accepted that Hadzabe s main occupation is hunting, the current Wildlife Act prohibits hunting without a licence. According to the law, no one is permitted to hunt if he has not licensed. Now tell me, given the cumbersome processes of securing a permit, how many Hadzabe will be able to get hunting licences? Besides, given the fact that Hadzabe s main occupation and means of survival is hunting, why require them to get licences for their main activity? Obviously, the law was enacted without taking into consideration that there are communities whose livelihood anchors on hunting. The law might be good but it is too general to carter for needs of different groups in our heterogeneous societies, says Mr ole Kaita.Best exampleWhile the government seems to be unconcerned about the interest of the minorities, people who have even little knowledge over how such communities live appreciate that their means of survival could be a best example which would also help the revolutionised communities to live and behave, Mr Beda Msimbe, a journalist, said after spending a night within a Hadzabe community. I spent a night in a Hadzabe community and it was a memorable night. Though I spent that short time, what I learnt from the community gave me a very different perspective of a lot of things. You may take Hadzabe as primitive people but their system of life is so sophisticated and it encompasses systems which put to shame some of things which we do in our modernised societies, he says.Mr Msimbe notes that there were many things which the Hadzabe do or don t do and they would make invaluable lessons and provide for lasting solutions to several challenges facing modern societies. While we treat them as primitive, they have got some knowledge, traditions and technology which, if applied in modern societies, would have helped to solve a number of problems, he says.Mr ole Kaita notes, for instance, that one Armenian company has developed a slimming pill out of a tree used by such a society in one of the southern Africa countries. This pill was developed after observing how that tribe used to control obesity. A company has made a multimillion-dollar profit from extracting a chemical from the tree, he says.TransformationSome people have been proposing that to ensure that such communities like Hadzabe do not disappear they be transformed into modern way of living. Under the new system, they argue, it will be easy for them to enjoyMr Rashid Kejo, another journalist, notes that transforming Hadzabe would be tantamount to losing all the values which the tribe represents. We will be losing cultural values which we will not be able to replace. This is great loss, he says.Ms Florence Majani, who spent a week with Hadzabe community in Sengere Village in Yaeda Chini Ward, Mbulu District in Manyara Region, notes that during the period she learnt that Hadzabe have a system of life which, though seems primitive to others, it takes into consideration challenges, some also affect other communities, in a different ways.Ms Majani told The Citizen, for instance, that though Hadzabe do not farm, but they know all the safe tubers which they use as food and where to get them. They also know what trees which develop tubers need for them to flourish, therefore, they would not do anything which would harm trees which they use as food or medicine.All not rosyBut not all Hadzabe traditions are worthy. One thing which makes many people when in Hadzabe community is their marijuana smoking rituals. Ms Majani noted that Hadzabe smoke bhang as a tradition. Each evening and at dawn they will gather around a big fire and start smoking bhang in a pipe. Usually it is the elder member of the group who starts and passes the pipe to men before it is passed over to mothers who passes it to all girls. Children as young as ten are taught how to smoke bhang and it is common, she says.In general, Hadzabe have good and bad behaviours which, if put in a balance, the positive side outweighs the negative attitudes.According to Mr ole Kaita, though changing times might necessitate the change in the Hadzabe and other minority communities, such changes should not be forced or imposed from outside such communities. Changes are abound to come, they are inevitable. But, this change should not be imposed. We must seek ways through which Hadzabe and other minority communities will change and evolve from within, he says.Asked what was the best way of making these communities evolve from within Mr ole Kaita notes that education is the best agent through which that will be accomplished.