Dar es Salaam. Over 60 children from nine regions, who have been diagnosed with hydrocephalus, are expected to undergo surgery in a week-long programme to be carried out by the Muhimbili Orthopaedic Institute (MOI).Hydrocephalus is a condition in which there is an abnormal accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) within the brain.Ten experts from MOI embarked on the project in upcountry hospitals yesterday, starting at Tumbi in Kibaha District, Coastal Region, where they conducted operations on children suffering from the disease.The experts, supported by GSM Foundation, will later proceed to Bombo Hospital in Tanga Region, Kilimanjaro Christian Medical Centre, Mount Meru Hospital in Arusha and wind up the programme in Mara Region. Another schedule in other regions will be announced later, according to the doctors.Over 4000 children in Tanzania are born with hydrocephalus and incomplete closing of the backbone (spinabifida) each year, according to data obtained from MOI. Statistics further show that only 500 of them are taken to the facility.The MOI acting executive director, Mr Othman Kiloloma, says 3,500 of the children with such problem cannot be traced. This, he says, is attributed to lack of awareness about the problem among parents. There are families that hide children with hydrocephalus. They have a wrong belief that it s a disability that they can t reveal, says Dr Kiloloma. I want to assure them that this is a disease and it s treatable, added Dr Kiloloma at a press briefing in the city yesterday.According to medical sources, Hydrocephalus can be successfully treated by placing a drainage tube (shunt) between the brain ventricles and abdominal cavity.Hydrcepahlus and Spinabifida are caused by the deficiency of folic acid when the child is developing in its mother s womb. Women are advised to take tablets of folic acid within six weeks of their pregnancy to prevent this condition, said Dr Kilolomo.According to the Tanzania Demographic and Health Survey (TDHS), more than 90 per cent of women attend antenatal clinic.However, according to Dr Kiloloma, most of them do so a few months before birth. If women access antenatal care early in their pregnancies, they can receive the folic acid supplements because that s the time when the baby s organs in the womb are forming, he noted. There are those children born with the condition this is known as congenital hydrocephalus, he said.